We will start with a roll call.
Trustee Spec here. Trustee Blackman. Here.
Trustee Cheerio will not be joining us tonight.
Vice President Quo Here. President Pelham here. Thank you.
We have quorum. All righty.
Um, are there any changes from staff
or the board, um, on the agenda? No
Changes from staff.
All right. Then I'll take a motion to approve the agenda.
I'll move. We approve the agenda. I'll second. All in favor?
Aye. Aye. Aye. All righty. Do we have, I don't see anyone.
Looks like to make comment for closed session.
Do we have anyone online? Okay,
then I will take a motion to adjourn to closed session.
I'll move. We adjourn to closed session. I'll second. Okay.
All in favor? Aye. Aye. Motion carries.
We will be back about six o'clock for open session.
All righty. We are back in open session.
Um, we have one item to report out of closed session.
A motion was made by Trustee Spec
and seconded by Trustee Blackman to approve the appointment
of Laura Johnson to the classified leadership position
of administrative assistant
confidential for business services.
The motion was approved by a vote of four to zero with, uh,
trustee chair not present.
Um, we will look forward to intro.
Oh, we're gonna introduce her after
it's okay.
Um, we'll do our Pledge of Allegiance admission statement,
and then we will get to our recognition statement.
So, um, trustee Paani,
can you please lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance?
Yes.
I pledge allegiance to the flag
of the United States of America
and to the republic for which it stands,
one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty
and justice for all
And our district mission statement.
Mission statement.
Dublin Unified School District will educate every student
to become a lifelong learner by providing a safe
and supportive environment
that fosters collective responsibility
for each student's success.
All righty. And now we will look forward to introducing
our new leadership staff member.
Well, it is such a pleasure for me
to introduce Laura Johnson tonight.
She is coming to us with 12 years
of administrative support experience
and six of those who were direct experience in business
services for Newark Unified.
She has a strong skillset
and budget monitoring, purchase order processing,
invoice management,
and contract handling perfect fit for what we need.
Additionally, Laura has successfully approved facility use,
permits, collector developer fees, managed risk,
and insured compliance.
'cause she's also worked in hr. So we consider her a ringer.
We're super excited to have you, Laura,
with her exceptional administrative skills, commitment
to outstanding customer service, paying attention to detail
and dedication to financial accuracy.
I'm confident that Laura is going
to be a valuable asset to our team.
Please join me in welcoming her to Dublin.
Good evening. Superintendent Funk, board of trustees,
staff and community.
I just wanna say thank you for this opportunity.
I am super excited to be a part of the Dublin Unified team
and I'm really looking forward to, uh, the continued success
and collaborating together
and contributing to the success of our students.
So, thank you.
Oh, okay.
Thank you.
A little bit wet and not direct. Sorry. Got it.
And next up, we have a very exciting recognition.
I'll, are you taking this one? Well,
I'm gonna just introduce
and have, um, a Bethany, uh, come on up to the podium.
You know, we in Dublin are so thankful for the amazing staff
that we have, whether it's our teaching staff,
our classified staff, our management staff, uh,
for the second time in the last three years,
the Alameda County Teacher of the Year
has come from Dublin Unified School District.
Woo. So
Bethany, bring her home for
Us. Wonderful.
Uh, my name is Bethany Wisack
and I'm the proud principal of Murray,
superintendent Funk President Pelham board, trustees,
colleagues, community members and cougars.
It is my distinct pleasure today to present one
of Dublin Unified's Finest.
What can I say about Lauren Apodaca?
Well, how long do you have?
Lauren is the kind of teacher you want
your own children to have.
She sees the magic in every single one of her students,
and she gives them all opportunities to shine.
She has a support for families long after,
after their children leave her classroom,
and she strives to ensure
that all Marie Cougars have the best education
and access to resources.
She's an advocate for inclusion
and disability awareness, leading school-wide initiatives
to make sure that everyone has a place at Murray.
Lauren Apodaca is the best of the best,
and I'm so grateful to be able to work with her
and learn from her every day She deserves this honor.
And more, please join me in honoring Dublin Unified's own
Lauren Apodaca 2024 Alameda County Teacher of the Year.
So before we come up and take pictures
and all that, please, the floor is yours.
I, I'm prepared this time.
Uh, the county did not tell me I was doing
two one minute speeches.
So I wing Jack. Uh, I just wanted to say, I'm so honored
to represent Murray Dublin in Alameda County
as 2024 Teacher of the Year.
And most importantly, I'm excited to be able to
represent the special education community
and my amazing students.
My favorite thing about being a special education teacher is
to really highlight and focus on all the things my students
can do instead of all the things they can't.
And someday I hope the whole world sees them as I do.
For those that don't. For those that know me, um, they know
that I strive to promote inclusivity, acceptance
and empathy for those with disabilities on campus.
You will often see me playing on the playground,
going down the slide, running around my classroom, dancing
and engaging with my students to make learning fun
and accessible School staff
and parents will often say hello and ask how I am.
And my response is usually always,
you know, living the dream.
Uh, and this honor truly embodies that for me.
I am living the dream now.
I am at a loss for words for all the support
that I've received from everyone here.
I wanna thank Alameda County Office of Ed.
I wanna keep thank all of our school board members, um,
and those of you who came to support.
I wanna thank the district staff
and my family, including my husband and my two girls, Otto
and Aubrey, who are here today.
And any educator great.
Knows that it, any
great educator knows that it takes a team.
And I wanna thank my magical Murray family
for being here today, um, and for my students every day.
Because today and every day it's a great day to be up.
Come bar. Thank you.
Well, we are thankful that Dublin is part of your dream
and we like to invite everyone up.
And let's take a nice big group photo.
I worth the party ears, you guys. Yeah. It's in everyone.
No, no. Good. You guys ready? Alright, we're ready.
Do 3, 1, 2, 3. Got it.
Perfect. Thank you.
I am too. She's the
All righty. Congratulations.
Those of those of us
that were there at Thursday night we're very excited.
'cause we don't, we don't even know who's
gonna win and when they announce it.
And you were the first one to be announced
and it was very exciting and happy to have you represent us.
Alrighty, um, next up kind of fitting, um, moving on.
We have some resolutions for the month of October, starting
with Dyslexia Awareness Month.
And that is Dr. Campbell,
Or, Well, so these are standard, um, uh, resolutions
that come before the board each year, uh, part
of the resolution list
that the board has previously approved.
Uh, and so if the board has any questions with any
of the language in there, we do have, um, representatives
that can, uh, uh, respond to that.
Uh, but each one of these are pretty standard.
Uh, there's not action items for us
to actually put money forth or to do.
It's more of a recognition of, uh,
that awareness for that month.
Does anyone have any questions
or anything on dyslexia Awareness month?
Just otherwise I will take a motion to approve it.
We decided to move, we have quite a few for this month, um,
or this time, but we put them all up so we could kind of
make sure we mention each one of them.
But we will, um, vote on each one individually.
So when takes wants to make a motion,
I'll make a motion that we approve resolution 2024 slash
25 dash 15 Dyslexia Awareness Month.
I'll second. Uh, trustee Paswan.
Aye. Everyone else? Aye. Aye. A Carrie unanimously.
Next up it is also Character Education Month in October, um,
focusing on excellent moral, civic and social values.
On, on this particular one, I'll just highlight,
as you know, we're working on developing a graduate profile,
uh, the skills, uh, disposition
and competencies that we want students to, uh, be strong,
proficient at when they leave our system.
Uh, and early on, one of the top five, uh, character traits
or one of the top five traits is character.
So it's pretty appropriate
that this month is character education month.
Any questions? Uh, trustee Blackman, that's, I
Only had a couple questions about this.
'cause I remember our kids going through, um, some
of these programs in elementary school,
but I didn't necessarily know the writeup on it.
And so I was curious 'cause there's a lot
of discussion about social values and other things.
Some of it highlights the
relationship of parents leading it.
Other times it's with, with schools supplementing it.
But it seems there's a, I'm a little confused
because from the writing,
it seemed like the parents lead this,
but at some point it's the schools, they're sort
of enforcing it and developing it.
What happens? Um, and I, I like the programs that we have,
but I do know
that the students get a little tired of some of it.
But I wanna understand a little bit better about
who's determining the social values.
Because we mentioned a lot in this document,
and if it's really the families that are determining it
and we're supporting them, would we
be actually stating something like this?
I'm just really curious 'cause I never
really saw it written up like this.
And I would love an explanation
because I love the fact that we offer the programs,
but I also am concerned about if somebody else comes,
we're gonna discuss things like eth um,
ethnic studies later.
And I just wanna make sure that we're sensitive
to people growing up
and having different sets of social values
and how we actually acknowledge it and support those.
So somebody could answer that would be great.
So I think each individual school, uh,
identifies their character traits
and they spend more of their focus on the character traits
as opposed to the social norms.
Um, and most of that is being supported
by the PFCs
and the, uh, the funding
that they receive from the school site, uh, that's specific
to their, um, their community.
So in terms of the social app part of it, I, I don't think
that that's a focus of our school sites.
So for families who are curious about this,
they would just need to reach out to their school
and get involved in their, their PFC
and that way they could actually ensure
they're included in some of that. Is that
That that'd be correct.
That the school and the principal for sure.
Great. Thank you so much. I'll make a motion
that we approve resolution 2024 slash 25 dash 11
character Education month.
I'll second. I have a motion. And second.
Any other trustee? pe Aye. Everyone else?
Aye, Aye, aye. Carries.
And next up, we, now, now we just have a week, a week
of the school administrator.
And, uh, again, we recognize all of our employees
during employee appreciation week in the month of May.
Um, but you know, every, it seems like every week
or every month, there's multiple weeks where you have, um,
administrator appreciation day, you have teacher day,
you have, uh, counselors, uh, uh, appreciation week.
So, uh, we certainly, uh, appreciate the amazing work
that our administrators do, uh, in the district.
And, uh, definitely just want
to recognize their work early on as well as, uh,
when we recognize all
of our employees later on this school year in May.
Any questions? Trustee Blackman?
Um, so one question I had is,
there's a couple paragraphs down, I'll try and read it off.
Um, where is school leaders depend on network
of support from school communities?
That paragraph we do mention, and I'm always sensitive
because I know there's a separation of church and state.
We, we mention faith-based
organizations in the context here.
I understand that we work with organizations
outside the school district,
but, um, it just seemed like a weird statement to make here.
I think we would make a statement about community
organizations and leave it at that.
Um, it just seems strange to place it in the document.
Um, that was my, uh, one question.
My other thing is, I'd like to make a comment
that we also believe that there are, in the next paragraph,
there are great schools because
of great communities that support us.
So I just wanna make sure that that's noted somehow.
Does anyone want to take out the faith-based organizations
or just community?
And I mean, I, to me it's kind of,
I saw it as, as not a only,
but like reaching out to, to every
kind of, throughout the community.
Um, does anyone have a strong opinion on changing the
wording on that one or leaving it as,
I'll take a motion figure out.
I'll make a motion to approve the, um, resolution 2024,
um, slash 25 dash 12.
Um, Dublin Alameda School, uh, Dublin,
new Unified School District, Alameda County, state
of California, week of the school administrator October 13th
through the 19th of 2024 with one edit
to remove the word and faith based.
I'll second. All right. We have a motion and a second.
Any other motions? All right,
trustee PEs. Aye. Everyone else?
Aye. Aye. It carries.
And next up is the National School Lunch week.
Yeah, this is the national school lunch week.
And what's, uh, really special in California.
Uh, we provide lunch to all students, um, one
of just several states to do that.
Um, and so, uh, we are very appreciative
of our new leadership in our child nutrition program.
Uh, and we know that, um, uh,
already some nice strides have been made to adjust the menu.
And with a matter of time, uh, by the end of the year,
we should see, uh, uh, a complete change of the menu
and how we source our food.
And, um, we're just excited, uh, that this is an opportunity
to recognize, um, not only the country,
but uh, the state of California for providing all
of our students free meals.
Any questions or comments on this one?
I'll make a motion that we approve resolution 2024
dash 25 dash 13 National School lunch week
of October 14th through 18th.
I'll second. All right. I have motion. Second.
Any other motions? Trustee? PE 20. Aye. Everyone else?
Aye. Aye. Aye. All righty.
And our last one is, uh,
America's Safe Schools Week, the end of the month. And
We know that, uh, this has become, um,
a trigger point across the country.
And in, uh, the last, uh, 10, 15 years, it seems like, uh,
school violence, uh, comes onto public campuses more
so than ever before, as well as college campuses.
Uh, and this is just a reminder in my mind that
as a district, we need to do all we can to protect our,
our schools to protect not only our students that attend,
but our staff that work there.
Uh, and it's also a reminder that it's all eyes
and ears on deck.
That if you see something, you gotta say something, uh, so
that we can respond as quickly as possible.
Any question? Trustee Blackman?
Thank you. I have a couple of questions on this one.
Um, so in the third paragraph down,
it's describing different examples of crime
and violence, yet it lists absenteeism and poor discipline.
I don't think either one of them is representative crime
and violence, and I didn't know why
they made into the paragraph.
'cause I don't think they are examples of it at all.
Yeah. Uh, rereading that, um, I, I take that
and it certainly could be, um, uh,
the wording could be adjusted,
but I take that as no accountability.
If, if a school site lacks accountability
of a school district lacks accountability
and students can get away with, um, inappropriate behavior,
that inappropriate behavior could lead, um, to violence, um,
absenteeism, I, I, if,
if we don't understand why someone is absent, um,
and do not, um, meet them where they're at
and provide them the supports that they need to try
to be successful, uh, certainly to reengage in school.
Um, we know that, uh, children that are isolated,
and especially if they're left unsupervised
and spend all their time, uh, on social media
or on violent games, uh, that that could, uh,
also lead to potential violence.
So, um, I think absenteeism is appropriate in the sense
that we need to do all we can
to meet students where they're at.
Uh, certainly poor discipline
to me is more about accountability, uh,
and that, um, there needs to be consequences
for people's actions,
but we also have to have a way to, uh, reengage students,
uh, that are off track, uh, due to, um, poor decisions.
Hi. So to clarify, I wasn't really questioning the list
so much as why those two things were under the category.
I think it could be addressed by the removal
of the word such and as, because
after the word violence, we're using the rest of the world
as an example of crime and violence.
But I actually think it's just a long laundry list
of examples and removing the terms such and as
after the word violence resolves the issue of the rest,
the list of the rest of the words.
That's okay with everybody.
Um, I'm okay with that. Okay.
Then the other question I had was, in the next paragraph,
there's a, um, an allusion to the fact that supplemented
with legislation, I don't know
how legislation actually creates a safe school environment
necessarily in the context
of the overall statement of the paragraph.
Um, we talk about district wide
and committee wide strategies,
and then we follow it with supplemented with legislation.
I, I would hope that by placing pieces of paper,
of legislation all over campus isn't
going to make it a safer school.
I think those terms need to be maybe rewritten
as to precisely why.
Perhaps it's something about using state federal resources
or, um, supported by legislative acts with funding.
Something like that.
Yeah. I, I don't take that at all about just posting, um,
um, language on any poster and putting it on a wall.
The legislation, uh, oftentimes does come with, uh, funding,
whether it's a state funding, federal funding, a lot
of times it's incorporated with countywide programs.
So I take that as actually a legislation that has funding
behind it, not simply posting the law.
Yeah. So if they could just say funding from,
or something like that before that would be clear otherwise.
Um, the next paragraph, whereas it's the responsibility
of all citizens to enhance learning experiences
of young people by helping to ensure fair
and effective discipline.
I actually took this as very shocking
that our whole community is gonna be in charge
of basically making certain all
of our students are disciplined.
And I don't think we wanna ask our community
to run around disciplining everybody.
So is there a reason why we actually, um,
make it the responsive of all citizens to enhance learning
by actually making sure we have fair
and effective discipline?
Should that be staff?
Or are we really asking our entire community
to basically ensure that we're disciplining our students?
Um, again, I I take this as, um,
the collective as a whole community, uh, holding, um,
educators accountable so that, um, we treat people fairly,
we treat people consistently, uh, so they have the same type
of, um, violation that their consequence is the same
or similar, that, uh, they're not disparities
between ethnic groups.
They're not disparities between male and female.
So no, the citizens aren't involved in the disciplining.
They're just holding the, uh, um, the community
as a whole is holding the school district accountable
to treat our students fairly
and, uh, provide, uh, consequences
that are consistent and fair.
I agree with what you just explained.
I'd love to see that codified in this paragraph though.
Okay. That's my only comment. Thank you.
Um, I'll make a motion approving
resolution number 2024 slash 25 dash 14,
recognizing October 20th to 26.
2024 is America's Safe School Week with the, um,
third paragraph removing the words such as
before substance abuse
Motion on for, do you have a second?
I'll second. I have a motion a second.
Any other motions? Okay, trustee pe
Aye. Everyone else?
Aye. Aye. Aye.
Aye. All right. It carries.
Um, next up we have our student board member report.
Okay. Hello everyone.
So at Valley High School,
students have been busy wrapping up
their first quarter this week.
Last week they enjoyed their fall spirit week
and fall festival participating in,
in activities like a scavenger hunt,
pumpkin bowling and more.
They also had their first karaoke lunch event at
of the year, which went very well.
Looking ahead to the next quarter,
upcoming events include a school field trip
to the Exploratorium in San Francisco,
the annual Halloween themed candy, corn, C cup competition,
and their Thanksgiving potluck.
Students at VHS have also been engaging in a variety
of coursework and opportunities from Las Positas college
classes, culinary and also culinary arts, leadership
and financial literacy.
At Dublin High School, many homecoming events are in the
final stages of planning.
Next week, we'll have all our activities,
including the football game, the area build, the parade
rally, and the actual dance.
Last week, students from PLTW Project League the Way honors
biomedical intervention courses presented their findings on
topics related to human physiology, such
as reaction times based on color
and how smiling might affect pain tolerance.
They shared their work with professionals from Kaiser
Permanente BioRad Laboratories, PTM Bio, LLC,
Pacific Biosciences, USD board members and more.
Additionally, false sports have been going strong
with the student section, doing an excellent job cheering on
all our athletes at Emerald High School.
They recently started a year long class competition called
the Arrow Board, where classes take where classes compete
to get closer to the bullseye, representing
how spirited their grade is.
Last week students enjoyed their HOWA
or Housewarming Dance Event Rally
and several other activities with these big events.
Now behind them, the leadership students are already getting
up to plan and organize their next set of upcoming events,
ensuring they keep momentum in the school Spirit high
throughout the, throughout their first year.
In addition, the tobacco Use Prevention Education program
has officially started with planning underway
for the Bread Ribbon Week to promote awareness
and prevention Emerald High's.
DECA also had their first unofficial training session in
preparation for the upcoming upcoming mini con setting the
stage for a successful competition season.
Last week, I sent out lead applications
for the committee groups
and the signup forms indicated that 40 out
of the 50 committee members expressed interest in
taking on leadership roles.
I've been working on organizing donation boxes at elementary
schools for the Afghan Student Association,
and last night I attended the budget meeting
and gained a lot of valuable, the the budget meeting
and gained a lot of valuable insights
into our current situation.
And I spend time encouraging more students to get involved.
Lastly, I have a set date
for the first student advisory council meeting,
which is next Monday.
I'm excited to gather input from the young students across
the different schools in our district.
All right, thank you. Um, it's DTAI see
DTA have a statement tonight.
Oh, they do not. Um, CSCA.
Okay,
I should know this one by now.
My bad. I wanna make announcement.
Um, tonight I am not here as the President of CSCA.
I left my post at the end of last month.
So this is my first board meeting, not being president.
For the past 15 years, I was the president.
I'm passing the baton off to my first vp.
That would be Karen Chamberlain.
She is a campus supervisor over at Emerald High.
She is gonna be filling in my chair until election time
and then so on for more.
But one thing before I leave here,
and I wanna make sure that you guys are all understanding
the budget crisis is a big thing.
One thing is when you cut FTEs from classified,
you're not talking about one person.
You're talking about two to three people equaling
that one FTE.
So be careful when you look at the FTE part of it saying,
oh yeah, we're gonna lay off five FTEs for classified.
Well, I guess what, you're actually eliminating almost eight
to 10 people right there.
So please be careful
and let's keep the cuts low enough just to amount
of people wise and not by the FTE wise.
I ask you that, please.
And so I'm gonna pass the baton off to Karen Chamberlain.
Hi, good evening, uh, superintendent fun vice
or President Pellum and school board members.
My name is Karen Pagan Chamberlain,
and I am the president
of California School Employee Association,
association chapter 4 3 9, here in Dublin.
On behalf of our chapter, we wish to thank Keoki
for his 15 years of service to CSEA.
Thank you Kiki.
Um, as Keoki mentioned, uh, earlier upon his departure,
I've stepped into the role of president
through the line of succession.
So, hello, it's a pleasure to be here tonight.
Um, a little background.
In 2007, um, my family moved to Dublin
and I began working
as a campus supervisor at Dublin High School.
And this year, I, I transferred over to Emerald High School,
still working as a campus supervisor.
I do love my job. I do love supporting our students.
Um, over the years I've had the privilege
of supporting our students in the community
and my role as campus supervisor.
I am now excited to shift my focus towards supporting our
classified employee members within this district.
I believe that supporting our members will intern turn
support our students community and district.
I'm excited about the work we can accomplish together,
and I look forward to a successful
partnership for all of us.
So thank you very much. Thank you.
Thank you. Thank you again, Koke, and welcome to Karen.
Um, moving forward.
Um, and next, our first
or special order of business will be the ethnic studies
one course outline,
And Dr. Campbell will introduce this one.
Thank you, superintendent Funk, president Pellum, members
of the board, and members of our community.
Uh, we are pleased to come here and present our ethnic
or, uh, studies course outline.
I'd like to introduce Sherry Sweeney, she's our Director
of Curriculum and instruction,
and she will introduce the team.
Thank you.
Good evening. Good evening.
Uh, president Pellum, um, trustees, uh,
superintendent Frank, and members of Executive Cabinet.
We are delighted to be here this evening
to present the Ethnic Studies Course.
One outline for you.
Um, as a little bit of background, um,
ethnic studies is not a new course.
So, uh, ethnic studies has been taught in, uh,
schools across California for more than 10 years,
and has been a graduation requirement actually in many
districts prior to it becoming a state requirement.
In 2016,
however, governor Jerry Brown did sign AB 2016,
which created a commission to develop a model, um,
a model, uh, curriculum for ethnic studies.
And the California State Board of Education did adopt
that ethnic studies model curriculum.
In March of 2021, in October
of that year, uh,
governor Newsom did sign a bill requiring a one semester
ethnic studies course
for all California high school graduates, beginning
with the class of 2030.
And in 2022, you might recall that the curriculum council,
uh, here in Dublin
after, uh, hearing a recommendation from the graduation
requirements Task force recommended
that all students be required
to take an ethnic studies course, uh, beginning in
with the class of 2027 in grades, uh, 10 through 12,
sometime during grades 10 through 12.
We subsequently, subsequently asked to extend that to,
or delay that until the class of 2028 to be sure
that everybody had clear understanding about what
that new graduation requirement would look like
and give all our students
and families time to plan for
that in their four year high school plan.
Um, the DUSD course, uh, of study for curricula
or for ethnic studies is modeled after the model curriculum.
You're gonna hear a little bit more about that, uh,
this evening from, um, a couple
of additional folks who are with me this evening.
And I wanted to point out
that the reason we're bringing this course outline
to the board for, uh, discussion this evening is
because a locally developed ethnic studies course under, um,
ed code is required to be presented.
Um, the public given an opportunity to comment on the course
of study and then adopted subsequently
at a different board meeting.
So for additional, um,
information about our specific ethnic studies, one course,
uh, I have with me this evening, Whitney Dwyer,
our assistant principal at Dublin High School,
and a former ethnic studies teacher in Oakland Unified
School District, as well as, um, a contributor to Oakland's,
uh, model ethnic studies curriculum.
And then also Katie Tombs, who is our, um,
ethnic studies teacher extraordinaire here in Dublin.
Um, she's been teaching the course
and we'll have more to share about what
that experience has looked like
and her recommendations for the course moving forward.
Thank you, Sherry. So the ethnic studies model curriculum
is really focused on what we call the core for.
Um, that would be the African American community, Chicano
Chicanex, Latinx, native American,
and Asian American Pacific Islander studies.
Um, being that those communities are generally marginalized
in US history courses, so it's really, um,
ethnic studies since its inception is designed
to really raise up the voices
and the stories of people in our country
and in our community, um,
who have not been historically represented.
Um, it has also evolved to include
and really, um, broaden the definition.
So while it is still focused on the Core four,
it also allows flexibility for communities
to focus on cultures
that are represented in their communities.
And so there's some flexibility to adapt the curriculum
to address our demographics.
And mixed tombs is gonna talk more about how
that happens in Dublin.
Thanks. Hi everybody.
Um, I'm Katie Tombs or Mixed Tombs.
Um, thanks for giving me some time
to talk about ethnic studies.
I'm always super excited about it.
Um, our ethnic studies course pilot started
with an initial course outline that we developed as a team.
Um, generally the team was reflective
of our humanities departments, the English and history, uh,
or social science departments.
Um, and then from that we built a pilot course, uh,
which I taught last year, first semester.
Um, it is a one semester course.
Um, and so we taught it as an elective.
So meaning students chosen, we had a mighty team of 12
of us and me.
So it was the perfect class size, I must say. I loved it.
Um, we also had an amazing, uh,
paraeducator with one of our students.
We had 10th through 12th grade represented.
Uh, so we had this kind of like multi-ethnic,
multi-generational space.
It was an awesome course. Um,
and so this year I'm teaching it again as an elective, uh,
but not till second semester.
Um, and so yeah, we're super excited.
We've got a small but mighty crew again.
Um, and this is
to be expected in a new elective, and that's okay.
But I'm really excited for us to grow
and kind of look at our development
of the course once it becomes a requirement.
Um, okay, this is slide with a lot
of jargon, a lot of words on it.
And before we get to this, I want bring students' voices in
because in all honesty,
students are often much better at saying things than adults
and very concise and direct points.
So these were some reflections
and then we'll bounce back to this,
but these are some reflections from students.
Um, this is their post-course survey.
And, um, I just wanted to highlight kind of
what they took from the course,
and I think it reflects kind of
what the course is all about.
We had one student that said
that they felt like the things they learned were relevant
to modern issues, and that they felt
that these were things they needed to know to be able
to contribute to important conversations in the future.
Another said that the part they remember most is learning
about different types of oppression,
but also the concept of interconnectedness.
And they felt like they understand
themselves in a deeper way.
Uh, another student said they thought it was useful
because they understood each other's cultural experiences,
but also their own,
and were able to talk about that in a
comfortable and safe space.
And then, you know, there's always that one kid in the room
that's like, you know, I'd love more time,
more discussion, more complexity.
But they did caveat that with, well, maybe
that's more ethnic studies, two material, um, which is fair.
Uh, but they were looking for more
complexity to really dive in.
It's a one semester course, so it's pretty brief.
Um, and so we try to cover a lot of material in that time.
I think students are highlighting what the state
has put in a lot of words here.
These are kind of the key outcomes.
Uh, if you notice these eight key outcomes
and goals, these are lofty goals, uh, for
what a one class can do in, in a, in public school setting.
And so these are lofty goals.
These are what we've been instructed
to generate in our course.
And then these are the six C's or so I like to call them.
And we'll see that they're asking us to cultivate,
to celebrate, to center, to critique, to challenge,
and to connect and
to break this down like we do for my students.
In chunking this, you can look at every bullet point
and probably find two
or maybe three words that need a definition.
A discussion are complex, could be problematized,
and that is exactly ethnic studies.
The first thing we teach is the language.
How do we talk about cultural competence?
How do we have 21st century civil discussions in a way
that reflects all of our differences,
but still makes every student feel included and strong
and more importantly, able
to make a mistake without being canceled?
Okay, that is really important.
We want our students to feel strong and,
and adaptive in the classroom
and give them opportunities to work through some of this
before they're in these amazing places that, you know,
they're going board rooms and operating rooms
and amazing rooms like these.
So I think that's the idea here.
Students say it a little bit more cleanly, I think,
but these are some of the goals that they're asking us
to accomplish with the course.
Um, with that being said, we taught the course one time
through, um, and had some pretty amazing successes.
Uh, I think the first one is that our courses designed
and organized around themes.
There's kind of these two recommendations
in the model curriculum.
It would be lovely if they gave us a binder
and said, this is what you should teach,
but we're in California so we're too diverse
and too amazing for that.
And so they give us recommendations.
Two of the recommendations are you can teach units based on
each of the ethnicities known as the core four.
Um, these come from the 1968 protests
around adding ethnic studies to the uc and CSU campuses.
Um, and the other option is a thematic focus.
Uh, our team elected to do a thematic focus,
and I think it was a really strong success in our pilot
because it allowed for every student
to enter from their own cultural background
and find that interconnectedness in the topics
that we were exploring.
Um, another huge success from the course was
that this is an interdisciplinary study.
Uh, that's my favorite thing about ethnic studies.
It is this idea that we are looking at everything from
political science to sociology, anthropology
and economics history and writing arts.
And it was so successful to see students like bring
what they do best to the classroom.
For example, I assigned a kind of generic, uh,
poster project, and I had three students
who were all in marching band go, sorry,
could we compose a song?
I was like, yeah, let's do that.
Um, and they were able to develop a song
that integrated their parents'
voices that they had talked about.
It's so cool, I'll send it to you.
Um, but it's really great
and I think it's just speaks to that this course can bring
multiple disciplines in
and have students start to think in more lateral ways
to think about what their skills are.
And then another huge success was
that in March I led like a two-part professional
development, both with kind of self-selecting, uh,
different groups, teachers that wanted to join,
and then also the entire social science department.
And out of that, we found a really great vertical alignment
between the ninth grade, like freshman seminar
and health curriculum where they explore topics of identity
and the 12th grade English courses
where they're exploring in depth texts
of identity and ethnicity.
And we need something to bridge that.
We need something to take students from those early learning
parts in ninth grade and help them bridge
and build that conversational ability around culture
and ethnicity and race so that they're ready for this,
again, graduation requirement at the end
of their four years in high school.
So I think ethnic studies is a really great
bridge to fit there.
Uh, I'll try to speed up. Sorry.
The other thing is, uh, some changes.
So I'm the one ethnic studies teacher. It's just me.
Um, and this is not me creating
this in a basement somewhere.
I've been really fortunate to work with the uc, Berkeley
and the uc Davis, uh, high school Ethnic studies institute.
A lot of institutes
or a lot of higher education universities are trying
to make sure that high school teachers are prepared,
that we're trained, that we have curriculum
and content that we're supported to get our students ready
for what they have, which is often American culture
and ethnic studies requirements for their students.
So our students right now are graduating into
that requirement to go to uc, Berkeley,
and haven't taken this course yet.
Um, and so it's really important that we are aligned
to their high expectations so that our students are ready
to walk into those schools and be super successful.
Um, we also realigned the unit slightly just to kind
of match our regional partners a little bit
to find some consistency in neighboring districts.
And the last thing is it gave us the option
to really include a unit
where students can focus on social movements, uh,
and social movement theory
and change, um, to give them like kind
of a real world context to what they're learning.
So those are some of the wins, some of the changes, um,
and this is just a snapshot, this is in the course outline,
but these are our five, uh, learning standards.
Each of them have sub learning targets.
Um, these were written by the team here at Dublin High.
The model curriculum doesn't provide
any specific learning targets.
They provide guidance, but no specific targets.
So we worked backwards from the San Francisco State Santa
Clara University ethnic studies requirements,
and kind of mapped those backwards onto a
nine through 12 level.
These are some of the units, uh, that are kind
of thematically focused.
And then also the unit assessments.
The only thing I'll say about those is that the idea is
to provide something other than just a research paper here.
They are gonna do some heavy lifting on the research
presentation, but we also wanna give students a chance
to write narratives, to do oral histories
and use technology to use arts
and self-expression through music.
Uh, and to do some real world writing
in the advocacy project.
So we try to, you know, keep it interesting
and keep students on their toes,
but bringing a lot of different things to not add something
to their plate, but really enrich the
education they're already getting.
Um, I love ethnic studies and I love talking about it.
Uh, I'm happy to talk more answer questions.
Um, Sherry's gonna close us out,
but I'm happy to answer any questions you have too.
Yeah, go for it. Great.
Well, as you can tell, we are very fortunate
to have the experience
and, um, expertise of Whitney Dwyer, um,
who really spearheaded this work for us, uh,
when the state requirement, um, was put into place.
And also, I hope you can tell, um, students love being in,
uh, Katie Tomb's class.
Um, I would love to be in her class every day.
Um, and, and so, um, she's been a really great, um, uh,
leader in this work as we implement
for the first time here in Dublin.
So next steps for us, uh, we do have already on display, um,
the core instructional materials,
which are listed in the outline that's also attached
to this board agenda item.
They're on display in the, um, office
where we always display materials
that we are submitting for adoption.
Um, and we will be bringing those back to you for adoption,
uh, on October 22nd, when we will also ask
for an action item, which we typically do not do.
Um, it's only because the ED code is re is requiring
for ethnic studies courses
that the board adopt a course outline.
So we will ask you on October 22nd to adopt the course
of study for ethnic studies one
and also the instructional materials that are listed in
that, in that course.
And we would be happy at this point
to answer any questions you have.
Um, thank you very much.
Anyone have any questions?
Um, trustee spec, trustee Blackman
Of you? Sure.
Um, thank you. Great presentation.
Um, love your passion, Katie. Yeah, that's awesome.
I wanna go take your class too. Great. Come on in. Anytime.
I, I appreciate the thematic approach that you're doing, um,
uh, and the alignment with the universities.
Um, can you talk a little more about the alignment you're
doing with the regional districts?
Like which, um, regions
and like how deep are you getting, um, into it?
Or is it more at a high level?
Yeah, that's a really good question.
Uh, one thing that's been really helpful since I'm,
you know, working on my own in the district, so to speak,
well, not alone, but working with like, you know,
I don't have a teacher team yet, um,
has been these institutes.
So I've attended a few, uh, starting as far back
as about a year and a half ago.
And we get to work with, uh, school partners
that are coming from kind of our neighboring districts.
Um, but then in uc, Davis even further out to kind
of the Sacramento area.
And a lot of our topics that are here in these units
are aligned with major districts across this kind
of the Bay area and the wider Bay area.
Um, and so that's been really helpful.
We can look at each other's syllabi.
We've shared curricular resources, we're working together.
And all of this is kind of with the expertise
of this high school ethnic studies
institute from the university.
So it's been nice to like get in the weeds with somebody
and really work through it.
Ours has, uh, you know, different unit assessments.
I think each school is generating a focus
that's gonna be enriching for their students,
but I think generally they're following a similar outline
on the thematic focus.
Very few schools, some do,
but very few schools are doing the more, uh, kind
of core four group focused
because of California's diversity in the,
the diversity in our schools.
Yeah. Yeah. Okay.
Um, what, do we have a certain credential
that the teachers have to have to teach this class?
That's a great question. As of right now,
it's a history credential
or social science credential that's needed.
So I, uh, you know, I'm all credentialed up.
I got my English and my history ready to go.
Um, but I think there is in the works an idea
for an ethnic studies credential
because much of what I took on my history credential test
and in the pedagogy class doesn't apply here.
And so I do think that'll be coming down in the next year
or two is like a further credential process.
But right now it would be a social science
credential. Yeah. Okay.
Social science. And then, um, I like the student who
mentioned, um, would need to be broader.
And I guess that's ethnic studies too.
Do we have an ethnic studies too?
There are dreams. Okay. Uh, there are dreams.
Uh, I think generally at the high school, I believe,
I don't wanna speak, but I think believe at the high school
level, there is a drive
to maybe submit a few additional one semester courses
to fit well with ethnic studies one.
But in ethnic studies, two elective could be added.
And I think, you know, this is, you know,
in the planning stage,
but I think it really focuses on additional community
engagement or maybe even like a semester long student chose
project in which they're examining an issue in their
community or looking at a way
to contribute, I think in some ways.
Action. Yeah. Please,
can I just add a Please, please, please. Sorry,
I just wanna remind the board, you did actually approve an
ethnic studies two course in 2022 when we brought you the
original recommendation for ethnic story studies One.
So it's already on the books.
We just haven't developed the course yet
because there hasn't been, um, the demand yet.
Um, but that will happen as you can see. So yeah,
So as the, as students are taking the one as requirement,
they could sign up for two
and that could be the same year back to back, uh,
or it could be perhaps over two different years they could
pair it with financial literacy
or any other number of like half
or semester long courses too. Yeah. Okay.
Great. And my last question, um, this is focused
for grades 10 through 12.
Yes, ma'am. Um, I know freshmen have a very specific classes
there to take and so there's rarely room.
Yep. But let's say there was
a freshman who wanted to take it.
Um, are we saying it's for 10th through 12th from a maturity
of the student standpoint or because of schedule fit?
Would a freshman be allowed to take it?
It's a good freshman. You can start. Yeah, go ahead.
And then I can add on.
Um, so it was like a whole year long process even coming
up with the idea of ethnic studies.
And so it was in curriculum council
and in those conversations we decided it would be best
to go 10 12 to not overload our ninth graders.
So it really is designed 10, 12,
and I worked really strongly
with our contemporary health team to make sure
that they are embedding ethnic studies, ideas,
and um, ideas.
Identity. Thank you. Yeah. And themes. Themes.
That was the word I was looking for.
Themes around identity so that they can then build off of
that when they go into ethnic studies.
Okay. So it sounds like it is kind of a mix
of we do want them to be older, we want them to have taken
that, that first class, um, for the health class and then,
and then also be older
and a little more mature and ready to take it.
Yeah. Okay. Great. Thank you.
Cool. Jesse, black questions.
I thank you for the presentation.
I know I've been asking for this
to come back, I think for a while.
So I think it's been out there for about a year
to see more about what's being developed.
So I do appreciate it. And I wanna second,
as a trustee spec had mentioned your enthusiasm.
It's really electric and I can imagine
how wonderful it is in the classroom with the students.
So I appreciate the enthusiasm.
I just wanna bring a couple things
that you mentioned that I think would be important.
Um, and that is the translation.
There's a lot of terminology in here
and we're asking the public to actually
give us some feedback and comments.
And I can tell you for a fact, they can understand a law
of the terms that are in this document.
So I know you wanna bring it back October 22nd,
but I would actually ask that you actually provide like a
full disclosure of definitions of some of the terms here.
So the public can just even read the document, understand
what they're reading, and then
bring it back at a later date.
Because I actually think there won't be very many public
comments on this because I don't think many people can
actually understand what it's saying.
So I think if we wanna be trans transparent, we need
to provide a supplemental document to this.
That actually translates some of the terminology
that you're very familiar with.
I understand. And, and Whitney is,
but I think that the public in general will not be,
so that would be helpful for them.
Um, one of the things I wanna also ask is,
I know there there was a discussion about the
Core four mm-Hmm.
And one of the things that, um,
I believe new Simon is second, he first rejected it
and then he finally signed and approved this to go forward.
But one of the criticism was that it was, uh, too narrow
and it wasn't as inclusive.
And one of the charges that was given to each
of the communities was to actually shape
it for your community.
And I know that we have the Core four,
but we are an incredibly diverse community here.
And I'm not seeing the diversity reflected in this material.
And I do feel for some students,
they're being required to take this course.
They will not find the course actually reflects them
or that they can actually connect
to the material themselves.
So I think we have a bit of a challenge here in that we need
to start to maybe look at not just the core four,
but also expanding and broadening it.
I'll give you an example. Uh, in the last year,
I have actually engaged with many families who are Russian
and Ukrainian, uh, descent,
some who've been here in the district for over 10 years,
some who've just moved here to the war,
but they don't see themselves obviously
in some of our curriculum.
Mm-Hmm. But this would be a great opportunity
to actually express some
of the things the Russian community has been in Kenne
and, um, California for a very long time,
but they're not shown here.
Um, so I actually would like to see this come back
with a way to broaden the information so
that all students can see themselves.
Um, one other challenge I'm gonna give you, which I
Felt, well, I'm sorry,
but can we, can you let her respond to that?
Oh, sorry, please. Before the next
challenge so it doesn't get lost. No, that's
Okay. Thank you. Please. I
wrote down the,
I wrote down the part about the definition,
so I wrote that down for sure.
And then, um, I think one thing,
so the multiple perspectives part is really important.
I think the guidance that I'm kind of taking
is coming from the model curriculum, here's
how they negotiate the balance.
And I agree with you, it is incredibly difficult
to think about a course on ethnicity and race.
How can it be inclusive of everyone?
Um, and so generally they say that we're working towards
greater inclusivity due to the curricular time constraints.
Difficult choices will have
to be made at the district and classroom level.
Uh, it should devote special emphasis
to the foundational disciplines while making connections
to the varying experiences of all students.
And I think one of the ways that I did that in
the pilot course is promoting projects
and assignments that really are driven by student inquiry.
And so having a course list that is deeply inclusive of it,
and I know this is both with a social science teacher,
and as a a, a literacy teacher, finding a book
that every student can see themselves in is very difficult.
And so, and students can feel left out, it is something
that happens, happens in our classrooms all the time.
I think our job then is to make sure that the material
that we provide is both a window and a mirror.
Sometimes it is a mirror.
It is a way for students to see themselves
and sometimes it is a window for them
to see into another world
and make connections back on themselves.
So I think a lot of the ways that I want to do
that in this course is make sure
that students have the option to elicit some student choice,
so that in their oral history project,
when they're doing a family interview
and they're talking about factors of movement,
how do humans move across this planet
and why I feel like those Russian
and Ukrainian students could do a really beautiful project
of talking to their families and,
and documenting those stories in a way that would be,
I think, powerful for our classroom to hear.
So I think the balance is, yes,
I don't think the course outline will ever have
every box ticked,
but I do think that our projects can make sure
that students can find those moments of connection to like,
see themselves and sometimes see themselves in someone who
isn't of their same race or ethnicity.
I think that moment is really important too.
But I, I hear your concern.
I think it's about making sure that we adapt our course to,
to be reflective as much as possible.
Can I add a little bit to that? Sure.
Um, I just wanted to point out again
that when we first started deciding how
to structure this course,
I think it was Whitney actually Mm-Hmm.
Who first brought to our attention, um, the distinction
between teaching the traditional core four, uh,
and then also a more fluid kind of thematic approach.
And as you can see from the slide that's, um, um,
displayed right now, if you look at the unit titles, um,
they're not tied to a particular ethnicity.
Uh, so it is our intention for the course to be reflective
of the community and be fluid in the sense
that it will always be able to be adapted to meet the needs
of the students who are sitting in the classroom at
the time that they're taking it.
So, um, you'll see there are core instructional materials
that were carefully selected,
but there's also an opportunity
to use supplemental materials that are reflective
of the needs of the students and the ethnicities
and backgrounds of the students who are in the,
in the course at that particular time.
So we expect it to be very adaptive
for our student population.
That's great to know. Thank you. Uh, it really helps.
So I'm gonna give you then a, a converse position, which is
that it was heartbreaking to actually hear,
this was actually several years ago.
One of our staff members came up
and it was a discussion about some of our data sets
that we ask families to fill out.
And they always have to check a box. Mm-Hmm.
And her response was, I am more than one box. Yeah.
Which one do I pick? And we've seen that the,
the data is starting to lean more towards more
and more people are are many things not one thing.
Mm-Hmm. Um, I always found,
and at that time I brought up
that was always challenging when we do the, um, the sort
of round Thanksgiving time, the sort of,
let's do some community kind
of meal bring your cultural dish.
And for many students it's actually really, um,
in a way it's marginalizing
because they don't have a cultural dish.
They have been mixed and married
and intermarried with so many different cultures
that they don't identify with any culture anymore.
So how do we address those students
that they don't feel like, I understand some
of the material in this course is about addressing these
different aspects that we want them to understand
with different cultures, but what do we do for students that
don't see that anymore in themselves?
Yeah. They don't have that.
Your example from, uh, the person
that you shared is actually like one of my favorite lessons,
which is when I bring in a copy of the us census
and we look at the boxes that people are asked to check
together and without instruction, we look at it
and we sit in that discomfort.
What, what would I check?
How would, how would I answer this?
How would my family answer this question?
And we sit in that for a moment
and then we talk about where did these ideas come from.
The idea here is really to complicate that narrative.
I think that you're saying that we are more than one box.
I think you're tapping into maybe some of those ideas
that we're hoping students arrive at.
Um, and so the goal,
at least when my teaching is really constructivist,
can we start with a question
and work through it, problematize it,
and then have students draw that conclusion as much
as possible that I think you drew from that conversation.
But yeah, I think you're right. The idea of mixed identity,
mixed race identity, mixed race ethnicities is powerful.
Uh, a lot of our students might be coming from
multinational homes, binational homes,
first generation, second generation.
And I think it's finding the language for that student
to express themselves,
which might be different necessarily from their sibling
or from their family member,
but giving them options, stories
and examples from class to be able to start to figure out
how do I say who I am and where I identify myself.
So yeah, I would expect students to come in probably
with some questions first and then try to move from there.
But I think we are trying to like lean slightly away from
just multicultural education.
Everybody carries a flag and that's who we are.
And really like complicate that notion like you're saying.
Um, 'cause I think some
of the takeaways you're pointing at would be takeaways.
I'd be hopeful students would take from that class.
Thank you so much. I really
do appreciate your explanation.
It shows that you really understand the complexity of some
of this issue for some of our students.
Yeah. The last one that I wanna bring up is
that I've actually had several parents reach out
and actually, um, new parents who actually
through their process in coming to the United States left
because they don't wanna be associated with what they left.
They feel it's harmful and they wanna be seen
as Americans without the identity of
where they came from being plastered on them.
And I do believe there's such a large number
of immigrants here in this community need
to be very sensitive to that
because for some of us who've been here
and we subscribe ourselves around these identities
because we feel comfortable with them,
some people actually fled places
and they don't wanna be associated with them at all.
So we need to also, I would hope
that in developing the course
that you're thinking about the sensitivity of some
of those students who their experience have been so harsh,
they don't wanna be associated with that identity.
So as much as you can,
hopefully you'll just work
that in somehow. Yes. Thank you. Yeah,
I think being as trauma informed and,
and centered in that.
Yeah, that's a great point.
All right. Any other questions? We have
one public comment.
Go ahead and take that now and then we can go from there.
Okay. We'll have one public comment, uh, virtually
and as in an anonymous parent.
Go ahead please.
Hello everyone. Thank you so much
for the wonderful presentation.
'cause um, as a parent, I had been waiting for some kind
of information regarding this ethnic studies course
that will be a requirement now.
Um, my first, uh, question
that I would really want the district
and the ethnic studies team to ponder over
and then share with the community would be
regarding the fact that ethnic studies course would be a
semester long course, whereas most other courses
that high schoolers have are year long courses.
So how are you planning
to incorporate it in the schedule such that,
that it's not impacted?
Like earlier, I know, um, for, uh, high school,
they had the freshman seminar
and they had health as semester courses.
And now for say EHS, they have combined
and make, make the Contemporary Health course.
That's a year long,
but there are very, very few electives also
that are semester long and many don't end up taking those.
So, um, that is one question I have that as a group,
if you can discuss, how are you planning to incorporate that
and then share more information with the parent community.
'cause as parents, we are, uh, quite concerned of
how it would be, um, adjusted with the year long courses,
both mandatory and electives.
Um, and then are you like, collaborate, collaborating with,
uh, nearby neighboring school districts
and trying to find out if they have already implemented it
and how they have done it
so we can learn from their successes or failures
and, uh, maybe to incorporate it in a way that would be, uh,
best suitable from our schedule's point of view.
Um, additionally, as a parent, I would really appreciate if,
uh, more information can be shared, not just
regarding the semester long part,
but also regarding the course itself.
Uh, because I know this is just an outline,
but the outline obviously cannot give us details of exactly
what the course is.
And considering that, um, the ethnic, uh,
studies team would be bringing this up for a board board,
um, on October 22nd, which is very soon,
I think if the community can get details of
what exactly this course is gonna be about,
is it gonna have historic, um, events
and how it's gonna take into consideration the diversity
that our community has.
I think all that would be really helpful. Thank you so much.
And I just wanna note in the item on the agenda, there is,
uh, a further outline that wasn't presented with this,
that if anyone wants more information that kind of goes
through the outcomes and,
and various things that some people wanna do.
Um, do you wanna,
does anyone wanna respond on the semester thing?
I know that was, that has been discussed
and I know that's kind of, and as juniors
and seniors, they tend
to take a couple more semester classes.
Um, it is correct that this is a semester long
course requirement.
Um, as mixed tomb said, one of the options would be
to take ethnic studies two, which we hope will be, um,
a desirable, uh, second semester
to pair with ethnic studies.
One. We already have a few, um, semester long courses
as well available at the high school.
Um, and there is currently at the state level a lot of, um,
enthusiasm and, um, excitement around financial literacy.
So we're thinking that that's going
to be an excellent pairing with, um,
with ethnic studies one.
But we are continuing to look at that
and how to be sure that everything fits in the schedule.
So we're not prepared tonight to, to share out sort
of a new, um, four year plan.
But we did share a couple of ideas about
how ethnic studies would fit in under our current, um,
graduation requirements.
And we'll come back with additional information about that.
Um, as we look at, you know,
changing graduation requirements, I'm assuming
that would come kind of in that January, February time,
when all of the, when all the new courses.
So yes, new courses are coming out.
We're actually starting that process now.
It is already time to start thinking about,
um, new courses for next year.
Yes. And then when the information goes out to students as
to what they would be taking
and what they need to take over the years
and what their available elective options are, correct,
we'll work with the counseling staff around that.
Excellent. Um, trustee Blackman,
I, I'm glad the topic was brought up.
So this is brought up, I think back in 2022.
The question was asked, um, would it be possible
to offer this course during the summer so
that it doesn't have the impact for students that
because of their college pursuits, they're, they have
to be taking year long courses
and they wouldn't find a good fit for a half year.
I know this important class,
but this allows our students
to actually also pursue their career goals
and interests as they're applying to colleges
and allows 'em to still take this course.
So at the time, there was no interest,
but I think it might help us solve some of this, um,
scheduling concerns.
So is there any, I don't know if you thought
of that, but just want question,
We we can certainly, um, take that under consideration.
It's not something that we're offering at, at the moment.
Yeah. The biggest key for something in the summer is do
you have a qualified instructor that's willing
to teach in the summertime?
And that just leads to my, my question comment.
I, I'm, as we roll this out, obviously
one amazing teacher can't cover all sections, right?
Uh, do you know if there's already interest, uh,
among your colleagues, uh, once it becomes more viable?
Or is this gonna be a outright
recruitment? We're gonna have to do the,
I'm currently recruiting now. Yeah.
Um, uh, when we did the March PD
with the social science department, I think my, uh, so,
you know, secret idea is to really plant some seeds.
And so we have a couple teachers
who are excited about pursuing it.
I think building a team is gonna be important.
Um, sorry, I'm not speaking the mic.
And I think the other part is making sure
that those teachers have the opportunity, like I did,
to attend some of these like
university accredited trainings.
Uh, they're being offered right now for free from the,
from the ucs, which is amazing.
So I think a continuing professional development for
that team is, is essential.
It's also what's recommended by the state.
So yeah, I think there's some folks I'm crossing fingers,
uh, that are excited about it.
And then balancing that out with how many sections we need.
I'm curious to see if students are initiating
and taking at 10th grade if we're gonna have like a large
number signing up.
So I think it will wax and wane slightly with signups just
because students can choose to take it at different years.
Yeah.
All right. Jesse Blackman, uh,
just comment time as opposed to question time.
So, um, I do appreciate all the information you've provided
and I know that you're working through some things.
One of the things that had me a little concern is
that there was some, in some of the writings,
there was the allusion to whether it's actually part
of the courses or the themes,
but given the recent issues in some of the college campuses
with, um, protests by students, any references
or, um, components of the course that basically
the way I read it, uh, talks about
and sort of gets students enthused about activism.
I think being vocal and being aware
and engaging is one thing.
But when you see the, some
of the terminology used in some information about ethnic
studies, it tends to bring up those images of last year.
And so I understand that students are very,
um, impressionable.
I had a good friend in college that basically went
and rioted for like, communism in college
and decades later turn around and said, what was I thinking?
I was such a fool. I didn't know what I was talking about.
Students are very impressionable.
So I would also ask that we be very cautious in how much
of this we infuse
because the tendency is
that they really don't understand the
complexity of some of the issues.
And I would hate to have something come out of some
of our students that would come back
to Dublin if they were involved in some
activities similar to other schools.
I don't want know of our students being thrown off
of a campus because they think this is what they must do.
I want them to be able to have a future.
So as much as we can, I know it's important that they, um,
take this course, but please as much as you can, um,
understand that sometimes they do
understand all of what it means. Thank you.
Thanks. All right. All right. Thank you.
I think we're not voting on anything tonight.
This just information. I really appreciate it if we, the,
uh, depth of everything all our next one
is the budget.
Alright, Chris Hobbs and I are gonna tag team this one.
Now this is a presentation that, uh, Chris
and I have done, uh, two, uh, together, uh, live.
And then one last night virtual.
Um, so it is the ex exact presentation
that's been shared three times.
The one last night was recorded,
and, uh, once it's edited, it will be posted so that, uh,
anyone will have access ongoing in the future as well as
to continue to pro provide us, uh, uh, feedback.
We are not going to go through the first 21 slides
'cause this board has seen these slides over
and over the last couple of years.
Uh, and so, uh, Chris and I will continue to tag team.
I do want this to be more of a conversation
once we get into the specifics.
So Chris is gonna start us off, uh, remind us
where we're at, uh,
and then I'll talk about some of the proposals
and what we're asking, uh, the board to do, uh, tonight.
Thank you Superintendent, funk
President, Pelham, trustees.
So the first half of the presentation, as Chris did, was,
uh, mentioned, was really about trying to give folks an idea
of how public school finance works in 20 minutes, which is,
you can appreciate is a, a challenging thing to, uh,
to get in that time.
But we ended up at this point in our presentation,
which is really where the board left off back in May when
they, um, um, saw our budget presentation
and in June when the board adopted the budget,
and that was addressing this need to close a, um,
ongoing deficit in our unrestricted general fund.
And this slide is the same slide we presented back in May
to show what the impact of that hole was going to do
to us if we didn't make a change.
And you can see that in 23, 24, we expected to end
with a significant deficit spend, which we did.
We brought forward a budget that continued deficit spending
for 24 25.
And that got us down to a point
where we basically were meeting our bare minimum
3% required reserve.
And as this board knows,
that 3% reserve represents about two weeks worth of payroll.
So it's not a particularly large reserve, even though
to most of us, $5.9 million would seem like a lot of money
as we move into 25, 26,
taking no action would result obviously in
that reserve going away
and ultimately for the district to become insolvent.
So the board did take action back in June
and passed a resolution asking staff to address that five
and a half million dollar hole by identifying reductions
that would get us back to a balanced budget.
And so that's the work we've been working on
with our community to collect data
and input on how we address that gap.
If we get this five
and a half million dollars worth of reductions, we end up
with a budget, again, based on all of our projections
and assumptions about what we know today to a budget
that basically is balanced moving forward, which is
where we ultimately need to be.
And Chris, if you're someone in the community looking at
this slide for the first time
and not having really the context or the explanation.
Sure. Can you explain why the 5.5 million
is mentioned twice?
Great comment. And we, that is something
that keeps coming up regularly.
We are not having to cut five
and a half million dollars each year and another five
and a half million the next year.
It's an ongoing savings for making the one one-time red, uh,
adjustments to reduce that five
and a half million worth of spending.
It's really just a math thing that I needed to add it
to the next column in order to reflect
that we've gotten those savings.
Okay. So how are we gonna get there?
Well, one of the tasks we took on last year was to try
to think about and figure out what would a super bare bones,
bare minimum school district look like?
Not a school district that we want, not a school district
that we frankly need to cut down to,
but what would it look like if we got to basically zero?
Many folks are familiar with the concept
of zero based budgeting.
The reality is, is we can't go all the way
to zero and start over.
We, we have contracts in place, we have
to keep the lights on, we have to have gas and water.
So there are things we really don't have a choice in
that we must continue to do.
What does that list look like?
And so it was, it was as much a mental exercise as anything
for our leadership team,
but we came up with a fairly compact list of the things that
we don't really have much choice in
the good news from the district's perspective.
And our community's perspective is
that we have about $160 million in revenue
to address this bare minimum set of needs.
But that bare minimum only costs about
$120 million to deliver.
So we still have $40 million to build on top of
that bare minimum and create the
programs that we're very used to.
And that's, I I think good news, frankly, yes, we have
to make five and a half million dollars worth of reductions
that gets us to this point where we have a balanced budget.
So we can't afford to continue spending 45
and a half billion dollars,
but we can still spend $40 million
to make Dublin what we want it to be.
So we feel like that's really good news.
Um, even though obviously making reductions is not fun
for anybody, what have we already done?
Well, again, this board started taking action last year
and made reductions for the current budget year
that allowed us to reduce our spending
by about $4 million of that.
Again, most of our budget, and you all know this,
but our community needs to hear it as well.
Most of our budget is people. 85.
84%
of our total spending in our general fund is spending on
staff people who work for the district.
We eliminated six leadership positions at the district
office, um, that represented about 10%
of our overall leadership headcount.
Um, those positions are no longer, um, that's a net number.
We, uh, closed almost six classified FTE.
And again to, uh, Mr.
Y's point earlier, he is absolutely right.
We talk about FTE in many cases, like in the terms
of leadership that tends to be, you know, one
to one relationship between people
and FTE, but that's not always true.
Um, and that's definitely the case
with our classified folks.
Sometimes that doesn't work out
to be a one-to-one relationship.
Um, at the end of the day, after all of the, um, shuffling
and fallout and some, um,
moving two different funding sources worked out,
we ultimately ended up only eliminating, uh,
three quarters of an FTE.
That was one individual that was, um, laid off at,
at the end of that, on the certificated side about
22 FTE were reduced.
And again, by the time all the dust settled,
all the moves had happened, folks had landed in places
where there were vacancies.
We ended up with two individuals that were impacted
for a total of one and a half FTE.
And then our ed services team did a just a amazing job
of going in and finding those things that were redundant
or weren't really providing the value we needed it to,
and identified about $800,000 worth of reductions in order
to get the ball rolling on these, uh, these cuts
that we need to make in order to get
closer to a balance budget.
So that's where we've got to today
and that's what we're implementing right now.
And so what we're gonna be talking about next is really
what does next year look like
and what do we need to do to actually get to that five
and a half million dollar reduction?
And so what we did this year was, uh, the leadership team
identified our biggest buckets, uh,
that would provide us the biggest bang, uh, for, uh,
potential reductions.
These are not recommendations.
These are possible reductions after multiple conversations.
Um, we've identified 11.5 million.
'cause again, what we feel is important,
what we learned last year was that when staff
just brings a straight recommendation, we kind
of box the board into a corner
and there's not a whole lot of room for the board to adjust,
uh, to make, uh, suggestions
or to make recommendations, uh, as well as the community.
Um, and so what we wanted
to do was identify 11.5 million in possible reductions so
that through conversations, uh, through opportunities
to find other savings, uh,
that the board actually can come up
with their best possible solution, uh, when the time comes
to identify the 5.5 million.
Uh, so as I go through this list, um,
what I would like the board to keep in mind,
if possible tonight if we can come to consensus, uh,
is potentially finding one, two,
or three areas where the board says, yes,
this makes a lot of sense.
We want staff, uh, to continue to pursue that as part
of the 5.5, uh, possible reduction.
Um, and conversely, if there are items on this list
that you think are untouchable, that are non-negotiables,
that should not be on the list,
whether it's a hundred percent of that category
or a partial part, uh, of that category.
Uh, for instance, instead
of it being eight FTE under a particular
one, it might only be four.
Um, if you could give, uh,
if we can have consensus tonight on
that direction, that does two things.
One, we lower the 11.5 identified potential cuts,
and we make a dent into the 5.5.
So as we get closer and closer, we'll continue
to gather information from stakeholders on
what is the most important priorities so that the board has
that all, all that information when the time comes
for the board to make the final, final decision, uh,
and for the staff to give our final recommendation.
So the first one is increased class size.
Uh, this is part of the LCAP goal.
One, particularly around access to curriculum
and, uh, uh, direct student support in the classroom.
Um, in our contract with DTA,
we have specific language that's tied to class size.
And depending on the, the grade level, uh, that,
that number varies.
So it could be 24 to one, it could be 29 to one,
it could be 30 to one.
Um, in order to change that class size,
that language that would have to be negotiated, uh,
that would be a larger increase
because you actually would have less teachers if you
increase the contract language.
What we're showing here is, uh,
within the contract language, we are able to do overages
and pay teachers individually for each student
that is over their contract size.
And so this would be the savings if we actually increased,
uh, the overages by one or by two.
So if it was by one, it would be a million.
If it was by two, it would be 2 million falling within the
current contract language.
Uh, and you can see, uh, there would be some impact on that.
Obviously, uh, stu uh,
teachers would have more, uh, work to grade.
Um, not all kids may get the same attention, uh,
that they would if they had a teacher
that has smaller class size.
Um, it may take longer for teachers
to provide feedback on grading the work.
So it's not the ideal, um, decision, but it is a decision.
Um, that is a significant number in terms of savings
furlough days for all employees.
So instead of talking about a salary reduction,
like a straight 6% reduction, uh, of one salary,
a furlough day is simply you take, um, if a,
a employee works 185 days
and they take one furlough day, they get paid one less day,
but the salary structure is still in place so
that when future negotiations
and future salary increases happen,
they happen on the existing salary as opposed to a salary
that has been, uh, reduced by a certain percentage.
And so you can see that if all of our
certificate classified management took one furlough day,
that would just be under a million dollars.
Again, that would have to be negotiated with DTA
and CSEA management is not part of a union.
It's more of a meet and confer with them.
Um, but you can see what that breakdown would be
for each of the three units.
Next slide please. Assistant principal reduction
at the elementary level.
So when you look at our surrounding districts, not all
of our districts, uh,
elementary schools have assistant principals.
Uh, some like at San Ramon might have part-time, um, uh, aps
or APS based on the size of the school.
Uh, and so in this proposal, it would take eight of our, uh,
elementary aps
and reduce them by four, which would be a $750,000 savings.
Uh, what hasn't been worked out yet?
If, because the board hasn't given us direction, would
that be based on size of the school?
Would it be based on unique circumstances?
'cause maybe a school is under construction,
they need more supervision, uh,
or would we just take all APS
and assign them halftime at two schools?
So, um, in week one, they'd be at school A for three days
and school B for two days.
And, uh, week two, they'd be at school B for three days
and school a for two days.
Um, we would figure out that ratio if the board, uh,
gave us direction on reducing assistant principals at the
elementary level, eliminate
mid-shift custodial positions.
Uh, LCAP four.
This is about clean, maintaining our facilities.
We have beautiful facilities.
We have a deferred maintenance program that really, uh,
protects our facilities.
We have ama amazing custodians.
But this is another area
that when you look at our surrounding districts, uh,
at the elementary level, uh, they do not have, uh,
necessarily two custodians there during the day.
They have their head custodian there during the day,
and then they either have their night custodian
or a night crew in our case
that comes and cleans the schools.
So if we were to eliminate the 12 mid-shift custodial,
that would just be under, that'd be a $910,000 savings.
Uh, schools might have to move to a AB schedule.
Uh, whereas instead of every classroom, uh,
the tables wiped down, the floors vacuum, uh,
the waste paper basket's emptied.
You might have an a schedule
where every night the waste paper baskets get, um, emptied,
but one night the tables get cleaned the other night the
floors get vacuumed.
Um, for the most part, our our schools do a really good job
of keeping their classrooms clean.
Uh, and we do not believe
that this would significantly impact
the maintaining our quality of facilities.
Next slide, please. Uh, use of facilities funding
to make our solar loan payments.
Uh, Mr. Hobbs, would you like to address this one, please?
Yeah, the board may recall a few weeks back we talked
about some of the, uh, additional funds
that would were available on the facilities program.
A good chunk of that, about $6 million came from interest
that had been earned on money
that's sitting at the County Treasury.
What we're proposing, uh, potentially
with this option would be to use those facilities funds
to pay off a facilities project,
in this case our solar project.
So we currently have a general fund backed loan to pay off
that project over the next 20 or so years.
What we would do with this proposal be to use
that $6 million, use the 2.9 million
that the board has already set aside for repayment
of this loan, and for at least the next several years,
use those dollars to pay for, um,
that general fund loan payment.
And so that would relieve pressure on the general fund
to the tune of that $1.6 million each year.
It escalates slightly from year to year,
but that's the, basically the number.
And this, this is one, um, that staff, um,
is recommending and hoping
that potentially we can have consensus, uh,
tonight on including this as part
of the 5.5 savings if the board is ready, uh, to do that.
The other one, of course, was the previous one,
the mid shift custodian.
Um, and then certainly we think
that furlough days are appropriate thing
to have a discussion with our bargaining units.
'cause those three right there do not impact the classroom,
do not impact students, uh,
and gets us more than two thirds of the way.
Uh, to that 5.5, uh, million dollar goal, uh,
teachers on special assignment.
Uh, this supports three of our key, uh, goals in our lcap.
Our teachers are on special assignments are part of DTA.
Uh, we have, uh, four full-time release.
Uh, teachers that support curriculum instruction.
Uh, they're the ones that work with our lead teachers
and PLCs.
They work with teachers on developing new, uh,
course outlines.
Uh, they work with teachers on, uh, improving,
uh, the art of teaching.
Uh, they work with our teachers on incorporating our
board approved curriculum.
Um, and then we have some part-timers
that are released from the classroom at the school site.
Um, so that 8.8 is full-time equivalent.
Um, but it's more than eight individuals.
Next one, please. Elementary counselors.
Uh, again, in our contract with DTA,
we have counselor ratios, student
to counselor ratios for secondary.
There's not language in there for elementary.
And certainly one of the benefits
of having the stimulus money, uh, covid money from the state
and the federal government is
to add elementary counselors to our elementary schools.
Um, uh, these would be eight out of the eight counselors
with a 1.2, uh, million dollars savings.
It would impact our l LCAP goals of two
and three, uh, particularly supporting our students, uh,
with their behavior needs and also, um, mental health needs.
Um, and so it is, none of these choices are good choices.
Um, and so, uh,
but we have this on the list
as a potential, uh, proposed savings.
And there are mental health counselors
at the secondary level.
Um, if anything, if anything positive came out covid,
it's the fact that we no longer have to
hide issues about mental health.
We can bring it out into the open, into the light.
Uh, we don't have to have that stigma anymore.
Uh, this is an area that, um, across California,
across the nation, the number of students that are asking
for help and support, uh, is critical.
Um, this is an area that I believe, um,
although we have it listed, it is something
that I believe we should maintain.
Um, my previous district, when I started in 2012,
we only had three, uh, mental health professionals.
Um, by my fourth year we had 18, uh,
and this was even before covid.
And so this is an area that I think is extremely important.
I'm biased towards it.
Um, but again, we believe it was important
to have be on the list
so people understood what their role was.
And we can have a conversation about it.
Campus supervisors at the elementary school, 9.75, uh,
they were eliminated.
It'd be 640,000, uh, dollars certainly impact lcap.
Uh, goal three. Um, now I I I do wanna say this.
There's a lot of, uh, proposed ideas here
that would impact elementary
and as your superintendent, I would never, uh, recommend,
uh, moving forward having three or four of these being hit.
Uh, because the job of principalship is already hard enough.
Uh, the job of being a teacher is already hard enough.
And if you were to take away an ap, uh, a counselor,
a campus supervisor, at the same time, the job,
uh, is that much harder.
Uh, I understand doing one.
Um, uh, but I wouldn't recommend doing the three of them.
But again, we wanted to put 'em on the list as part of
that 40 million that is above
and beyond the base so that we could have a conversation.
Is this what makes Dublin Dublin?
And yes, we should keep them, uh,
health services assistance, uh, 11.3, uh,
745,000.
Um, impact, um, again,
this would be another impact at the elementary level,
but it's across the system, uh, at middle and high.
It would shift a lot of the work, uh, to our,
our office staff, uh, as well as our LVNs and our nurses.
Um, and, um, again,
that just increases the work of, uh, people
who are already feel like they're stretched, uh,
with the work that they already are assigned.
And then clerical positions, uh, at the site
and at the district office, uh, clerical,
we're talking more of your secretaries.
Uh, we have secretary four, secretary threes, uh,
just a couple secretary twos.
Um, and, um, again, there are certain, uh,
areas that we feel
that we're a little rich in, in that support.
Um, and so if we were to identify in a, uh, eliminate 10,
uh, that would be an $800,000 savings.
Um, so this is the same list.
Uh, Chris, do you wanna highlight, uh,
why it's slightly different
and what those numbers are showing?
Sure. So, and we'll show this in a moment,
but we have asked the community that's come out to, uh,
watch these town halls to give us feedback
and tell us which
of these 11 things would they save if they were in your
seat, if they had the ability to make that decision.
Which seven things. It was arbitrary.
We gave them seven votes to spend.
Which seven of these 11 items would they choose to, to,
to hold onto, um, at the expense, notably
of the other things potentially, right?
So we've had 122 participants in this survey as
of two 30 this afternoon when I finished this slide up.
And you could see how many folks of those 122 voted for
maintaining these items.
So again, the higher the number, the more
robust the support was for keeping
that particular, uh, subject.
And so in the case of increased class sizes, for example,
84 out of 122 said,
don't save the money that way.
Keep those class sizes the way they are. Don't impact that.
Um, you can see at the top end of that, uh,
elementary counselors at 92 was the, um, so far again
through this afternoon, the highest, uh, scoring one,
the facilities funding for, uh, helping
to pay off our solar loan has the least support for folks
to hold onto.
More people are willing to say yes, do that.
Um, and so it's a, it's a, you know,
it's not a vote, it's not an election.
It's not a thou shalt do this
because we said this was what our votes were,
but the intent was to bring feedback.
One of the questions that came up often, um,
during the town halls was, well, what if you did four
of this out of the eight or five of this and six of this?
And you can do the math
and figure out, there's a lot of permutations of this
that we could have created.
Our goal through this process was to make it fairly stark so
that we could get some visibility into what folks, uh,
felt was most important.
So that additional 84 out of 1 22, whatever number out
of 1 22, that represents the current voting.
And of course, we'll keep the board updated
as we get more data and as we move forward.
And then there's a slide
that just breaks it down by the group,
Right? We'll bring this back
up in a second.
But yeah, we just, um, we did add
after the fact, unfortunately we got a, a great suggestion
that we should try to disaggregate this data.
So we added a question to ask folks,
how are you related to our district?
Are you a parent? Are you a student?
Are you a classified staff member, certificate,
staff member, leadership staff?
Um, and so you can see the breakdown
by those different categories.
And again, a significant number
of folks either didn't answer that question
after we put it up
or, um, had answered the survey prior to us asking
that question, and that's in that bottom row there.
But that gives you a sense of how different different groups
of stakeholders within, um, uh, looked at those.
And if you do the math and add it up, it won't come out
to 1 22 because of course, some folks happen
to be both parents and staff members like me.
I didn't vote.
So now we would just like to open it up for, uh,
the board's initial, um, opportunity
because this is your first time as a group to be able
to see this, uh, and have a dialogue together.
Actually, Chris, uh, Chris, can you go
back to the list for me?
Oh, um, and then please take a seat and be more comfortable.
Um, we're here to, to answer questions.
We're here to try
to shine a light on unintended consequences.
Um, and, uh, you know, we have other members
of cabinet that are here.
Let me highlight once again that I believe
that the facilities funding, uh,
from the solar loan payments is to me a no brainer.
Uh, so that's base, that is something that
does not impact our classrooms, does not impact people.
Um, I do believe that the mid-shift custodial, um,
although would be a loss of staff members
who do amazing work, I think we can still
maintain our facilities, uh, at a, at a way that,
uh, everyone would be proud of.
And then certainly I'm gonna be open to having conversations
with our bargaining units around furlough days.
Um, and the other area that I think, uh, we could figure out
how to, um, divvy the work
or eliminate work is around
that clerical at the side in the do.
Um, that's my initial, um, uh,
recommendation, uh, to the board.
Um, and, um, not that the board is voting,
but if there's consensus that, hey, these are areas
that are important, then that helps us narrow
that 5.5 million.
But we're here to take questions, clarifications,
Trustee Blackman.
So a quick question on the chart that, um,
Chris Hobbs was showing us with the
aggregated disaggregated information.
What does the column N stand for?
Sorry, n is, uh, the number
of individuals in that category?
Thank you so much.
Anyone have some questions? Well start with Trustee speck.
Sure. I'm happy to go first.
Um, so it's a lot obviously take in.
Um, I'm glad I was able to attend at the one at Dublin High
to at least have a start of soaking a lot of this in.
Um, uh,
there are a few things I would want some more details on.
Um, the TOSA roles.
I know you kind of generalized curriculum adjustment course
outlines, but if I'm talking about eliminating positions,
I need to understand more specifics on, um,
what those actual roles are, what, um, value they bring
to the district and how it would be accomplished
or just not accomplished if
that person, if that role went away.
So would the work go away? Would it be done by someone else?
So just kind of, um, I would need
to understand a little more on that piece.
Absolutely. Um, the, um,
health service assistance, um, I also need to, would need
to understand, um, exactly what they're doing,
their tasks at the school
and if they went away, what, who does that,
um, role?
Um, and that one to be clear,
that was not an elementary only, right?
That was a across all that's correct. Across all schools.
Okay. Um, the
two of them, this doesn't mean I'm for or against them.
I'm just stating that there's two of 'em
where we're essentially, you'd have
to keep doing it every year.
You're sort of kicking the can down the road.
So if, if we furlough day employees this year, we'd have
to again next year, remember the five
and a half million was in both columns.
It doesn't mean I'm saying I'm against furloughing,
I'm just stating it only solves the problem the one year
and then we would have to do it again,
or we'd have to find another way
to save that amount of money.
Um, so it's just something I think about as I
make those decisions versus the others while it's, you know,
hard to lay off a valued employee like the,
that is then solved for the next year.
So, um, I think about that
as I think about the furlough days
and then, you know, the facility funding.
Um, there's only so many years
before we run out of those that interest money.
And then we either hope that the state's given us more money
by then or we have to lay off people.
So, um, they are, they're just things
that have to, to continue.
So that's something that I think about as I think of them.
Um, I will not, so you wanted some direction.
So I'll give you mine. I, I would not vote
for campus supervisors at the elementary school.
Um, they provide too valuable of a resource
and it's, they're inexpensive.
Um, and I just, yeah, I would not, um,
I wouldn't vote for that, um, in any situation, um,
on the counselors, I would not vote in total on those.
There's no situation
where I would remove all eight ELE Elementary or all five
and a half mental health counselors.
I would struggle to eliminate them at all.
But if there was situations where, um,
we felt like smaller schools, we could share some,
but I would not be on board
with totality in those two categories.
Um,
Make sure if there's, that's, um,
that's the direction I have at this point
and I welcome listening to my fellow trustees' thoughts.
Trustee Blackman,
First of all, I really appreciate the comments from
Trustee Speck, um, especially her insight into the furlough.
Thank you for providing that. That's very insightful.
Um, one of the things I find about this meme,
which is interesting, and it sort of falls in line with
what occurred during Last Spring's discussion about cuts, is
that it was more like a menu of selections.
And I, I always find that that's really not as effective
as actually providing a vision for how
to go about reducing budgets.
I've dealt with budgets that are essentially like 7, 8, 10
times the size of our entire district budget.
And when you have to cut like something that's 5%,
you don't look at a menu of things
because it has a domino effect.
You actually start to develop a
vision for how you go about cutting.
So the first thing I would like to ask, I need to understand
what is in the 39.7 all of the things that are in the 39.7.
I know that you found 11.5 I need to find out,
is the 11.5 all of those positions, are they in the,
are they in the 39.7?
In other words, can we function without all
of this in the district?
I know it wouldn't be great, but I wanna understand what's
what is actually in the three 9.7.
My next question is, is that we haven't had discussion about
vertical ratios and costs across each campus.
We should be able to understand some
of our overhead costs versus the
absolute delivery needs that we have.
They're on the baseline of our budget.
So if we're looking at the 39.7, presumably
that's divided across either district office locations
or distribute across each campus site.
And we would be able to determine is there a certain
efficiency ratio at each site
and then hone in on where we can make greater efficiency.
So that's again, a bigger global place where we could start
to target where the things at that site
that would give us efficiencies where we could save.
The last thing that I would also say is that I think we need
to go back, honestly when I look at
what we have done in this district is amazing,
but we also have a lot of benefits going through covid
and some of the support services that we added.
But we were a fully functioning school district in
2018 2019.
There's a lot of things that we have added
that are once not needs.
And I would ask that we actually look at
what did our district look like in 2018 2019
and scale it up for the number of students
and then look at the programs we've added
because that's probably where a lot of our cost is.
And if we could do what we were doing in 2018 2019 to be
as successful as we were then granted it didn't have a lot
of the really nice bells and whistles that we have now,
we would probably find an efficiency factor that'd be
a lot easier to live with.
And then add back some of the absolute extreme needs
that we must have in the district.
For example, if it's the the LVN or the the health clerks
or if it's the elementary counselors
or site supervisors, if there's some things that come
to the top of the list, that's what we'd add back in.
But I get concerned when we actually have sort of a menu
of things without having a deep dive understanding about the
impact of each one of those things.
So I wanna share the things that I would
and would not support in some detail.
Um, increasing class size I think is a mistake.
I've heard from teachers from the grading committee
that they're already overtaxed from the number of students
to the point where they can't even
provide feedback in the grading data.
Just a little sentence that says you're falling behind.
Get your act together if they can't handle that.
Now imagine trying to increase the class size.
I think that's asking teachers to do a lot more
and they're already taxed with the number
of students and what we ask them to do.
We're also gonna discuss suicide prevention.
We're asking teachers to start to watch every single student
what they're doing so that they can see like changes in
behavior, adding more students just makes it more difficult
for them to do a great job
and to also care for our students.
So I don't think this is a very, um, helpful idea.
I also am concerned with the impact to our parcel tax.
We sold it as a approach to ensuring
that we would maintain small class sizes.
So I think this goes against our parcel tax statement
that we sold to the community.
Um, with regard to Furloughing staff, I appreciate um,
trustee spec's comment as she mentioned
that it basically becomes an
ongoing thing we have to do every year.
It doesn't really solve the problem reducing
assistant principals.
I think that's challenging
because again, if you did a vertical analysis of each site,
you might be able to find where that might be possible.
But it does have an impact on the quality of care
and the ability for the administration to manage the quality
of our education for the students.
And we know how important it's,
especially in the younger years,
eliminate mid-shift custodial.
If you can find a way to make it work,
this might be a solution.
But one of the reasons why we did this was
because of the huge issues
that were occurring against the more crowded schools.
So the schools that have really extreme issues with crowding
and strange ways of addressing crowding during lunchtime
and other times I think
that you could probably find a solution,
but it might be targeted, um, use of facilities funding
to make solo loan payments.
I know when the board actually approved this,
we actually got a nod
and I believe actually the wording of the approval included
that we would not use bond funds to pay for the solar.
And this is a very specific request.
I'm going to lay out that we actually devised a payment
structure that put up a piece of property as collateral.
One of the reasons why we did this is
because we know that our solar is going to feed us power
and electricity to our district
at a more economical rate than if we started
to draw down from pg and e and other sources.
The difference is that if we didn't have solar,
we'd be paying for it out of the general fund.
So by using facilities money to pay for the solar,
we are essentially using facilities money for bond money
or facilities money to build facilities
to basically pay our electrical bills.
And that's not allowed in our bond.
So in order to basically reverse the decision the board made
to basically approve the funding
and the structure for the solar panels, you would need
to get four board members to vote to reverse their decision
as to how we're funding the project.
I don't think you're gonna get that.
The next thing I would like to also talk about
teacher on special assignment.
If there's special assignments
that you could pause right now
and actually defer later, I would advise doing
that, if that made any sense.
Elementary counselors,
we didn't have 'em before, unfortunately.
I know how great they are right now,
but if we didn't have 'em before, I know
that we can manage to live without them.
Again, unfortunately. 'cause I love our counselors,
mental health counselors, as many as we had
before in 2000, 2018
and 2019 if they have to jump between sites.
Makes sense. But again, want versus need,
I think we're gonna have to make some really hard decisions.
Campus supervisor given concerns about safety, um,
this is a real challenge for us.
I do believe we have fencing around these areas,
so it's possible that we could do some reductions there.
Health service assistants, honestly,
I keep asking why they're not called nurses,
but I guess they're not licensed.
I'm very concerned with loading this up.
When we have an emergency,
we don't have enough coverage at each of our sites.
So this would be a no for me. Clerical
site and district office.
Um, this item, I believe in the world of ai, we do more
and more of this on our own
and I do believe that we have to look at ways
that we can be more efficient.
I honestly don't know any senior administrator working
industry that has a clerical assistant
anymore in the private sector.
It's very rare unless you are A CEO.
So I understand that we have a need for it in the district,
but we need to look at how much of it we could actually,
how much we're actually really utilizing
and how much of it's just nice to have.
But those are my comments.
Um, I would appreciate it if some of the information
behind some of these, um, possible reductions
as they're described here, they're just one line.
They actually need a paragraph underneath them to explain
to the public exactly what they would do
and how they would affect each site.
Thank you
trustee quo.
Thank you. Um, this is
to, uh, assistant superintendent
and Chris Hobbs you said, and Chris as well.
This presentation was recorded
and it'll be made available
to the public for future viewing.
And then the survey is gonna be open
for quite some more time in order to get more votes.
'cause 122 is not representative of the entire
Dis Not at all. But it'll stay open. Yes.
Right. Um, how long do you think that,
do we plan to keep that open until,
Uh, well, I think we'll keep it open
or we will kind of, uh, maybe adjust it as we go,
but until the board, until we're confident that we're ready
to make a recommendation to the board that the board can,
uh, take action on, uh, we'll keep the survey open.
Okay. Thank you.
I just wanted to public to be aware of that fact
that there's no chance to put in your, um, input.
So, um, watch over the videos and submit the votes.
Um, based on our preliminary votes, it's pretty obvious what
the three top ones that are, um,
quote unquote no-brainer so to speak.
Um, I would like to have somewhere explanation on the
facilities fundings to make solar loan payments.
What is the consequence of taking that money out now?
Or, I mean, what does it do
for us three, four years down the line?
So again, the funds we're talking about using
for this purpose is actually not bond dollars.
They're, it's the interest that was generated
by dollars sitting in the treasury.
Um, the impact would be on projects
that have not yet been defined.
So right now, if you recall the, we presented
that those dollars existed,
but the board has not taken any sort of action to
allocate those dollars to any project.
So that was one of the reasons why we felt this was a
reasonable use of those dollars was
that this would allow the board to accomplish, um, the goals
of having a balanced budget
and use those dollars towards a facilities project, um,
in a way that that, you know,
I think matches the appropriate use of those funds.
Okay. So that sounds like to me it's interest earn on
a sum of money that we have in a checking account or,
Or sorry, sitting in the, uh, county treasurers, uh, okay.
Bank and save the budgetary scenario changes
in two, three years times.
That could be just, it would just replenish it based on the
interest being paid, right?
I mean, going, going forward.
I guess what I'm trying to say is to, uh,
trustee spec's point, if we did this,
this would be a temporary measure to get us
through a couple years, maybe
Approximately five. Yes.
Approximately five years. Five
To six years, yes. That's
how much it would, that's
how long it would last, correct.
If we had to keep doing this, right?
If, if say the budget scenario changes in two,
three years time, the state has more funds, this type
of process could be, um,
Could be curtailed at any time.
Curtail, yes. Okay.
Thank you. Um, yeah,
and just look, looking at a survey makes it kind of easy
for me to just go with the most bottom three least favorable
as voted of course, to make up for the rest of it.
I imagine we can take a little bit of here and there
and come to, uh, 5.5 million,
but the bottom three would be furlough, uh,
solar loan payments
and teach on, teach on special assignments.
So I appreciate that feedback.
Um, and if you just did the approach of the BOB three,
that's one way of looking at it.
I think, uh, the majority of individuals,
even teachers, but certainly classified employees
and definitely um,
parents in the community have no idea what Atsa does.
And so that's why it is important
to talk about the role of PTs.
Um, and so, um, I think
that's why they receive the least amount votes
because people don't, uh, under understand, uh, their role.
Um, and so that is something that we will have to make sure,
um, that we express exactly what that impact would be.
Um, as I, I thought I mentioned it,
but I'll just reinforce it.
Um, I believe this is one of those areas
that we can do a reduction,
but I'm not supportive of reducing all eight of, um,
the, the positions.
And so, um, we'll have to do a, a good job of
identifying those that would
and what would be the impact, uh,
and if the board shows all what the real impact would be.
All right. All right. I have a few questions too.
Um, question on the furlough days.
You said it, you would need to be
negotiated, which I understand.
And um, at this point, I know in like oh 8, 0 9,
the state allowed for shorter year, this would have to be
non-student days, correct?
That is correct. Is there a
deadline in the year when we would need to do this so
that we had days to use?
Like what, when is the last day that teachers work
that kids aren't there, that we might need to do this by?
Well, this would be for the
next year. Not this year. This would be for year,
Year. Year. Okay. Right.
So we, so it would be any of the staff development days
that we have, staff development the two days prior
to the start of the school year, the staff development days
that we have throughout the year,
and the one at the end of the year, um, for the secondary.
So it's a matter of if it's, since we have to negotiate it,
we would do an MOU
and then that would adjust the,
the calendar without impacting the
instructional calendar for students.
Correct. We wouldn't be changing the 180
instructional days.
Correct. Um, and this might be more in the weeds,
but does this impact, so if the teachers worked
that calendar, would that be considered a full year
of service for them or any employee?
Uh, it would be a negotiated work year, so yes, uh,
it would be a, a considered a full year,
but we will con confirm that with stirs.
Yeah, I would just wanna make sure
that we're not messing people's stirs
and pers up, um, at the end.
So, um, that to me, there's some, some questions with that.
I see, you know, options there.
Um, I definitely, yeah, saw that a lot of elementary, um,
and there's not a lot of admin and,
and high a lot of adults, you know,
extra adults at the elementary level.
So, um, those definitely are ones I would not,
would not be supporting.
Again, I won't be here, but, um,
and I know we had counselors at the elementary level prior
to CI mean, I know my, when my kids were in elementary,
there were counselors and that was many years ago now.
Um, so I don't believe they have all come since then.
I don't know specifically.
Um, personally I think given what we know in our students
and that we have ongoing effects of covid, of everything
that, um, I think there is a lot of mental health, um,
at both the elementary
and the secondary level that those counselors can support
on an ongoing basis.
So for me, those are, those, um, are, are concerning.
Um, I think if the facilities funding works within there,
I think that to me, yeah, is a no brainer.
Um, and to me,
if you're looking at like the health service assistance
versus the clerical, I feel like the health is more
specialized and kind of focusing on, on kind
of day-to-Day student things.
Um, hopefully we could find some other things
that could kind of back rub stuff.
I know that's all important and we all have
a ton of paperwork to get done.
The state always likes to add more
and more paperwork on things.
Um, but I think we're,
we're trying to address that at some point.
Hopefully they'll listen. Um, so that would be
where I would lo lean.
Um, and definitely one
of the things I did write down too was
what specifically are the teachers on special assignment?
Um, a little more information
on that I think would be helpful.
Um, and I think the custodial,
I think we could manage on that.
I, I do definitely think I
would, would be manageable.
I think we'd need to look at it.
Um, and I think, I think it's too,
I think it's really challenging to look at
where we were in 20 18, 20 19.
We've opened a high school, which comes with it, you know,
additional things.
I, I think there's just so many things has changed.
Like nothing. We're, we're, we're not,
we can't go back to where we were there.
'cause everything has changed in terms
of so many different things.
So, um, I have a hard time with kind of going back
and just rolling things back.
But I do know, I mean, I don't know Dr. Campbell,
do you know what we had counselor wise?
Anyone know we had counselor wise prior,
but I, I know we had them and my kids are high school
and beyond, and so they were in elementary a while ago.
Yeah. Uh, Mr. Hobbs just leaned over
and asked when we got the elementary counselors and I,
and I don't really remember the year,
but I remember Megan Rouse when she was up on the board,
she really pushed for it.
It, it was prior to Covid.
I, I just, I can't remember what year we got them.
Well, we had 'em part-time, So
A site would have Like two
and then it was maybe 20 18, 20 19
where it became a full counselor at every site.
But you had 'em, you just shared it with a another site.
Yeah. So we had some, um,
and yeah, I think some of these might be, can we,
can you potentially shave a little bit off of versus
cutting entirely?
Um, I'm just gonna, I just feel like any
of the counseling is going to impact
your special education numbers.
You're gonna impact everything.
So to me that just kind of kicks problems down the road
and causes more costs that, um, so
that would be my, my 2 cents.
Um, I just kind of confirm, I checked earlier,
we don't have any public comment at this point in time.
Um, I do as trustee quo said, encourage people to, to look,
um, and Trustee Spec
and Trustee Blackman, do you both have your hand up?
Yeah, I had one more.
Um, you mentioned, um,
neighboring districts are potentially in a different place
with us as far as mid-shift custodians
and assistant principals at the elementary.
So I would like data on that if we can get it.
Just to understand, um,
do any neighboring districts have mid-shift custodial?
'cause I think if they don't, then that
does definitely lead me to, you know, a place
where we're higher than
other districts that we don't need to be.
Um, and then, uh, I would love
to understand assistant principals at the
elementary as well.
Um, I do know that, uh,
our elementary schools might be fuller,
but they're certainly not full like they were 20 18, 20 19.
Um, we, all of them are are moving down into, um,
just much more manageable numbers.
Um, I think the other thing I'm, I'm very aware
of is we're talking, these is in a year
and a half, we're opening another school.
So we're have another elementary counselor
and another elementary assistant principal.
And so I'm just trying to think ahead to those as well.
Um, especially as I think about Sher Mark Hill's opening
and how much smaller like Doherty
and Murray both get with that, the impact of that.
So, um, You know, we're talking about cuts,
but then we're talking about opening a school which
adds, adds in more.
So I, I just feel like there's gonna be even more
that we have to kind of dial in
thinking with that school opening,
Uh, trustee Blackman. And
then I'll take the one public comment.
If there's any other public comment, um,
please get in in the next, it's like 8 0 1.
So in the next like two minutes
and then I'll close public comment.
So I appreciate the question that had been asked
by trustee quo and the clarification by our staff.
I would make, uh, with regard to the facilities funding,
I would make a request because I actually think
that the way it's written is a misnomer.
We're not talking about actual facilities funding
that actually has been set aside for facilities.
We're talking about interest held in, um, securities
or, um, some type of like, account
for our facilities funds.
So could we clarify in the statement,
we're actually not talking about facilities funding itself.
We're talking about interest on health facilities funds.
I think that would help clarify for the public
that we're not actually cutting into existing facility funds
that we have reserved for dealing with those issues.
But we're talking about what
we're making in terms of interest.
Yeah, we've certainly kind of made that point
as we've had those conversations during the meetings
that this was, um, interest that was earned
and was not currently, um, dedicated
to any particular project.
So it would not impact
any of the projects that are currently
Underway. But I understand, but for
anybody who's not hearing
that and just reading it, Mm-Hmm.
Like I know I attended the
presentation, but I didn't hear that.
So, okay. Um, I'm reading what was
provided in the presentation,
but thank you very much for clarifying it. Great.
Well, and I think further clarification, when we brought,
uh, the concept to the board of
how much funding was left in facilities, if you recall,
it was just under $10 million of that 10 million,
6 million is interest.
So it is tied to facilities and future projects,
but it's not, uh, public approved bonds money.
Right. But it is for future projects.
It it's still for facilities. Projects,
Yes. Yes.
But it's the
interest that was generated
and the interest is what's allowable for us
to use in the general fund.
Alright. Public comment? Yes.
Um, we have one parent anonymous who'd like
to make a public comment via Zoom.
Go ahead please.
Thank you for giving me the opportunity.
And thank you Mr. Hobbs
and Superintendent Fung for the great presentation.
Um, and as a parent, I really appreciate
that you have been involving the community,
notifying them in advance
regarding the town hall meetings that you've been having.
So I really appreciate all of that.
Uh, but I do have a question regarding the survey.
Um, in yesterday's email that we received
for the virtual town hall, it said in the end
that we will be given access to a survey
where we can choose the options,
but I do not see any emails separately with the survey.
So could I please request the district leadership
to send out that survey, um, and then notify parents again,
because most people don't have access to the survey.
And, um, this is possibly the, a few times that parents,
uh, must have heard about it.
And other than that, I think since I am, um,
speaking right now, I can possibly give you some insight on
what parents, uh, would appreciate
and which also is reflective, uh,
reflected on the survey based on the 1 22 participants
that have, um, taken it already as a parent,
I think no parent would want, um,
the class size to increase.
I, I know teachers are doing an amazing job, uh,
but they have so much on their plate too.
And I think no matter whether it's elementary, middle,
or high, if we can maintain the teacher to, um,
students ratio, uh, I think both from academic
and uh, learning point of view,
I think it would be great if we can do that.
I think from a parent's perspective, um, having like, uh,
elementary school campus supervisors is so essential.
I have friends who are known supervisors
and I hear stories of how much, um, it's required.
Although I do not have children in elementary,
I think I would really support, um, trustees
who have brought up the fact that having proper
supervision in elementary schools, it's,
is really essential.
And then other than that,
like if we just look from a bird's eye view,
I think the clerical site positions,
if those can be reduced, um, I think
that will not impact the students
and the teachers, um, directly.
So I'm sure you all will do a great job discussing
and making final decisions,
but as a parent, if I could just request for the survey
to be sent out again, if it's already been sent, um,
that would be really appreciated.
Thank you.
So I appreciate those comments.
Uh, the survey was tied to the QR code that was, uh,
at the end of the presentation, uh, last night as well.
That was, uh, in the, uh, comments, um, the
recording last night
or the presentation last night was recorded.
Uh, and so that will be placed not only on our website,
but we will send out the link to the recording.
Uh, that again will then allow, uh,
individuals to take the survey.
Uh, we just have to edit the, um, recording
because it was running for a good 15 minutes
before we actually started the presentation.
So we wanna make the recording as tight as possible.
Uh, and then just one clarification.
Um, when we're talking about campus supervisors,
those are the employees that are there all day.
The noon supervisors is a different funding
and we are not recommending reducing the noon supervisors.
So the noon supervisors at lunchtime would continue, uh,
under this scenario if campus supervisors were
reduced or eliminated.
Can I ask one other question to Mr. Hobbs?
Um, when, when is the next piece of next pie
of the wheel on the budget?
Uh, that, that next trivial pursuit piece will be the, uh,
first interim presentation in December.
December. So at that point, that'll be
Through actuals through October 31.
So we'll have some update on the budget as to
what we've spent so far this year compared to
what we thought we were spending, what we actually got from
the state, though that didn't seem to change too much,
but we should have a little bit more information
in December and we'll
Have our updated enrollment counts
and all of those projections based on just having
more data available to us.
Okay. So that might adjust up
or down that 5.5 slightly.
I know which way I hope it will.
Yes. I think we're all hoping that,
but I just, well, I just kind of couldn't remember
where in the timeline we were on, on budget.
So we'll have one more kind of look at that and then
before the budget for next year is
discussed and set and where these cuts are made.
Correct. Okay. Thank you. All righty.
Um, I think I am gonna go, since we're kind
of going right now, if they have any public comment, um,
the general public comment, if there's anyone,
if we have either in person or online,
and then I will call a quick break after that.
But, um, since we, if we have anyone for public comment,
if anyone wants to make a public comment for a general item,
please log in now.
Um, otherwise I think we are, I'm gonna take a quick break
until eight 15
and then we'll be back to continue with some board policies.
All righty. We are back
and I see Dr. Campbell,
I think the first board policy is from ED Services.
Yeah. Thank you President Pelham
and superintendent Funk, board of trustees
and members of the community.
I'd like to introduce Marco Taylor.
He is our Director of equity inclusion and student support.
He's actually gonna be up here
for the next two board policy revisions.
And so, uh, he's gonna take you home
on the next two board items.
So I wanna welcome Marco Taylor.
Good evening, president Pelham, superintendent Funk Board
of Trustees and Executive Cabinet.
Uh, tonight I bring to you the first reading of BP
and AR 5 1 32 titled Dress and Grooming.
Um, appropriate Dress and Grooming contribute
to a productive learning environment.
Uh, students are expected to wear clothing that is suitable
for school activities, and that does not present a health
or safety hazard
or cause a disruption to the educational process.
The policy also emphasizes that students must be allowed
to express their gender identity
or cultural beliefs, uh, through their clothing.
This year's revision of the dress
and grooming policy incorporates several important updates,
uh, one, inclusivity and dress.
Uh, we have expanded, uh, protections
to include hairstyles associated with cultural identity such
as bras, locks and twists, ensuring
that students are not discriminated against based on their
hair, texture or protective styles.
Uh, two, uh, respect for individual expression.
The policy now explicitly ensures
that students may dress in a manner consistent
with their gender identity.
Uh, this is a key step towards supporting all students
and respecting their rights.
And three, non-discriminatory enforcement.
We've added more specific language
to ensure the dress code is enforced equitably without bias
based on gender, race, body type, or household income.
We want to ensure fair treatment for all students,
and this policy update reflects that commitment.
Uh, in addition to these updates,
the ar outlines practical guidelines
for enforcing the dress code.
One example, uh, being, uh, clothing that promotes drug,
alcohol or illegal activities is prohibited as well
as any vulgar pro imagery.
We also emphasize, uh, dress code violations should not be,
uh, corrected in a manner
that disrupts the learning environment.
And, uh, for right now, thank you.
That is it for, uh, dress code
and grooming BPA R 5 1 32.
Uh, thank you for your attention
and I welcome any questions that you may have.
Uh, trustee Blackman.
Thank you. I'm glad this has come back.
I know I asked for something we related to dress
and grooming and, um, I just wanna share the reason why I
brought it back is because the level of complaints
both from family students
and teachers with regard to the fact
that there's a total lack of enforcement of the existing,
um, dress policies that we have on campus
and the level of distraction disruption in the classroom.
So I'm just relaying that information to you.
So I'm glad this came back.
Um, the one question I would have for you is how do we know,
for example, in some of the information here,
when you talk about enforcing, um, uh, dress,
I guess code or policy, when there's no specifics in it,
before we actually had specifics,
which gave our administrators
and site staff the ability to actually point
to something specifically without getting into trouble
with regard to those protected issues you mentioned right
now without any specifics listed in the documents,
our staff are led to making a judgment on what they think
that might be interpreted as.
And that's an easy flag for somebody to say, well,
you basically using my protected class,
or some aspect of your judgment of me to use
to basically flag me for the way I'm dressed.
When we actually provide specifics in here for our staff,
they can actually point to it.
Right now, I'm concerned that this is overly vague
and it would actually lead to less
and less enforcement of essentially nothing.
Um, I appreciate that you say appropriate dress,
but you have to define what that is.
So could you expand upon
what appropriate dress is on a school campus?
Yeah. Uh, so the question is you want a, a definition of
what appropriate dress means and how we can expand on that?
Yeah, I think, um, as we, we had an opportunity
to review this as at principal meetings
and at our cabinet meetings.
And one of the things that came up was, uh, ensuring
that the dress is not a
disruption to the learning environment.
I think, uh, we could take that,
we could take the definition
and opportunity to define appropriate dress
and, uh, take that under consideration
and see how we can revise this bp uh, to ensure
that that's more clearly defined.
Trustee spec, I'm sorry.
Um, I just had a couple more questions.
So, um, one of the things also that you noted in here is
that when practical, um, it's at the bottom of,
I think the BP students should not be directed
to correct dress code violations
during instructional time or in front of other students.
I can understand not wanting to embarrass the student,
obviously, but usually we're supposed
to flag students coming onto campus.
So one of the questions I have is if a student is coming
onto campus and they're not, whatever it is,
properly dressed, so to speak, um, if we don't capture that,
we're allowing them to go through school.
And this is one of the complaints I'm gonna relate to you is
that other students perceive that as favoritism
because nobody actually caught that person and stopped them,
and it's a distraction to others.
So how would you, if you're not allowing them
to pull the student out
and help them to address this dress code,
or if it's in the morning, how do we
stem that sort of behavior?
Are you meeting with a student?
Are you having a discussion with their parents?
I mean, what, what's the actual follow up so that
the behavior doesn't continue?
'cause obviously it's gonna be there for
that day distracting everybody and affecting everybody else.
So how do you actually get to it
before it actually creates this domino effect?
Is there some solution in here or process
or protocols that you can explain?
Because if we're not allowed
to actually address it at the time
and place on campus during instructional
time, then when, when do you
Yeah, I can speak to my interpretation of
what is written there and, um, my interpretation is instead
of, uh, correcting a student, uh, loudly
or on stage that, uh, there's a,
a private off stage conversation with that student,
if there's a violation of, uh, the dress code.
So in other words, as the former site administrator, uh,
instead of having teachers
or administrator call a student out
during class time in front of the class, you would take
that student aside, uh,
and either have a campus supervisor bring them to the office
to have the discussion, to provide them an opportunity
to change out if they have something in their backpack,
if you have a loaner
or if you need to call home
to have the family bring something.
That's what we mean by not interrupting the instructional,
um, time for other students.
So could I make the request then, then, rather than saying
what we're not gonna do, could we actually put into the
document what we are gonna do so that it's just clear
and the expectations for a student that's called out
of the room or has that side conversation,
that's the behavior that's expected as a result.
So
I don't think it's necessary.
If the rest of the board feels that it's necessary,
we'll take that into consideration.
One other question I had was that, um,
in the discussion about gang related apparel,
there's also this little piece that talks about, um,
interpretation in the last paragraph of
that section about bias based on race, ethnicity,
national origin, immigration status,
or other protected character characteristics.
And the possibility that, not
that we would have these students here,
but there are these gaps in understanding
or conflicts where essentially we don't allow gang gang
dress and we don't necessarily describe what that is.
I I don't know how anybody would know
unless it's somewhere
that somebody would be able to identify.
And that leaves up to the teacher to understand what
that is without a reference point.
But in the case of the person just happens
to be an immigrant, but also a member of the gang,
how do you address that when somebody is actually an
immigrant but also a member of a gang wearing gang wear,
but an immigrant that feels
that they have a protected class status
that prevents you from telling them to take off that outfit
that they're wearing that is gang.
I'm just saying, not that we're gonna have it,
but there's some con conflicts in the writing here
that don't make
clarification as to where the priorities are.
Um, let me try to address this.
There is ed code that allows us, uh, to identify
specific, um, identifiable gang related, uh,
um, clothing that is not protected under a certain class.
And so if I'm an immigrant
and I'm naturally attracted to a potential gang,
it is our responsibility to educate that individual
and that family by wearing those type of clothings
that have been identified professionally as gang related.
What that will, the potential impact that that new student
to our country, to our school system,
how it could play in a negative effect on them.
So it's our responsibility to help educate them.
Awesome. On the ar I know this
doesn't fall under our purview.
One of the things they didn't find in detail were we do have
requirements for special types of courses,
for example, in labs.
And when we're using equipment, it's very dangerous
for students to have their hair down, to have long sleeves,
to have open toed shoes.
In some cases in chemistry, it's also dangerous
to have long not to have long sleeves.
But I don't see in here like a writeup
that actually discusses the fact
that there are perhaps specific dress
and apparel that's required when you are taking those
courses, whether you define it later on
or in this document, it needs to be called out
that they're going to be exceptions that where we're going
to have to define, like, for example, in pe
although we provide, um, sports, um, clothing,
we don't necessarily prohibit a student from wearing
something from home if they're not going
to purchase those items, which is very understandable.
But when it comes to safety, I actually think we need
to include things which give our teachers
and staff the ability to mandate when those
things must be done.
Um, where they don't get punished for calling a student out
that has their hair down when they need it up
because they're working on a piece of equipment or in a lab.
So if you could possibly
add that, that'd be great. Thank you.
Yep. Noted. Thank you. Trustee speck.
Um, I just wanna point out, I, I like the lack of, um, rules
that aren't going to be enforced at schools.
So, um, I I think that, um, we need
to focus on educating
and not on telling people to go home and change clothes.
Um, unless it's grossly, you know,
like clothings should be
sufficient to conceal undergarments.
So I appreciate that we took off a number of these
because, um, they were written here,
but then they were sporadically enforced, um,
which was just confusing to students.
So my question is, if we approve this at the next meeting,
um, are we then expecting every site to come
with different dress codes?
'cause many of the dress codes have things in there
that are no longer in these documents.
So are we expecting that change
and will that be communicated to the public?
Yeah, no, I, if I'm understanding your question, one
of the things that we wanna do is make sure
that this is clearly stated
and, uh, all of our site's handbooks and that we are uniform
and unified and what the
expectations are across the district.
So you shouldn't see it should be very similar across sites.
Well, I'm thinking like there's specific ones
around the length of your shorts
and when you stand straight with your arms,
and it must come to your thumb, that's not in this ar
that's not in this board policy that shouldn't,
in my opinion, not be allowed in a dress code.
Is that, would that be accurate to your belief of
what is from this?
I think that example that you're giving speaks to you
what was stated as the vagueness of the word appropriate.
Right. And, um, I don't, we have not decided to go into
that type of detail in terms of, uh, the six inch rule
with say, address or a skirt.
Um, and I think a big part of that was, uh, due
to enforcement and evenness
of enforcement across school sites
and different grade levels and, and the district.
So yeah. So my answer is no, we,
we have not chosen to go that route. Right?
So we have not in here.
So would you agree
that the expectation is a dress code would not be allowed
to state those things because it's not, um, in these,
I, you know, my opinion is I, I am fine with the way
that it is written and I don't think that it is necessary
to put that in the ar.
Okay. But what about the dress code at the site?
What about the dress code at
The site? Can they
specifically say your shorts must have your
hand straight into your thumb? Is that okay,
Dr. Camp? Feel free to jump
in. Um,
But I have, because I don't think it is,
but I guess I'm wanting, I'm wanting to hear someone.
I agree with you. So I think that, uh,
we have a principal's meeting coming up,
and I don't want us to
be beholden into specifically when we're gonna
start, uh, changing.
But we definitely need to start having the conversations
with the site principals in terms of,
and just being, like Marco said, be more uniform
and some of these site specific things with, you know,
going down to the mid thigh
or whatever, we just, we need, we need to eliminate that.
So we all need to be more uniform.
Great. And then we avoid this, Hey, we have a dress code,
but how much is it enforced?
'cause you know, it's, it's confusing.
It's confusing to parents. Um, it's concerning to kids who,
you know, are trying to follow the rules. And
So I think, I think we have plenty
of opportunities at our principal meetings, AP meetings to,
to calibrate on expectations
and enforcement of expectations.
Okay. Yeah. So then as I look at this AR
and I see how many things are crossed off,
then the expectation is that these principles will be taking
that guidance and will be crossing things off their dress
codes as well so that they're in alignment
with this board policy and ar assuming
that it is approved at the next meeting.
Yeah, I think that's the direction we wanna move in
alignment and calibration. Yes. Great.
Thank you Trustee Blackman?
I beg to differ. I actually think
by forcing individual school sites
to be limited does not respond effectively to the culture
of the community that those sites serve.
I'm hearing very different comments from the community on
the east side that would like to be able
to have some more restrictive, more modest types of clothing
that do not sexualize the classroom.
We don't want our classrooms
to look like TikTok videos being like shot.
We would like them to look like
classrooms where learning occurs.
So there's been a bit of a backlash.
And part of the problem is
because it, I guess this transition to a different type of,
uh, dress code was being slowly ruled out
and nothing was being enforced.
And so some boys one day decide to wear bras to school just
to see if anybody would dress code them and they didn't.
So students actually think it's a farce right now.
So if you're not experiencing this,
I suggest you go into the classrooms
and talk to teachers about how disruptive it's become,
because I, if you're going to leave it to sites,
then give them the freedom to do
what their communities asked them.
Thank you.
So yeah, I believe very, I was very happy to see all
of these things eliminated in here.
I think what students choose to wear is up to the students
as long as it's not drugs or alcohol or violence, um,
or, you know,
like vulgar kind of just, I, I I think
what certain shorts are on one body type versus another, I,
I think it's not our purview.
And I think if students wanna dress more conservatively,
that is absolutely their right and their ability to do so.
And if they wanna dress 'cause it's really hot
and they wanna wear short shorts
and that's what they have as long
as they are not showing underwear and swearing and,
and that kind of a thing, I
absolutely support not micromanaging.
Um, I think historically this has been very gendered
and I have major issues with that.
And so the fact that that came off I think is really great
to see because I think you are responsible for yourself
and your learning and blaming what other people are wearing
around you for your not learning,
I think is not taking responsibility.
So I absolutely support the elimination of
various, you know, halt and whatever tops
and lengths of shorts
and how are, you know, like all the ways we used to get
around it and whose arms are longer.
I just, it it becomes so objective,
so subjective and not objective.
And at, in the end of the day, everyone's responsible for
what, what they're wearing.
Um, and I don't believe that it is our job to
be the morality police in terms of
how tight something can be or whatever.
Um, so I was really happy to see a lot of this eliminated
and I hope that it will then carry down to the sites
and say, as long as it's not showing underwear,
swearing on all those things, doing alcohol, you know,
having promoting alcohol, then you know, you,
you wear what is comfortable for you.
Um, so I absolutely will support this
and, um, believe it is a move in the right direction
to support students.
So this is a first reading on this one, right?
So this will come back next meeting. Mm-Hmm.
Um, go from there. And then the next one.
Alright, major change of tone.
Yeah, change of tone.
Uh, the next one is suicide prevention and BP
and AR 5 1 4, 1 0.52.
And, uh, suicide is one
of the leading causes of death among youth.
As such, the district has developed a, a policy
to address prevention, uh, intervention
and postvention strategies, ensuring that we provide a safe
and supportive environment for all of our students.
Uh, this year's revision includes significant updates aimed
at strengthening our suicide prevention efforts.
Uh, one is expanding expanded training requirements.
All staff will now receive annual suicide prevention
training, including teachers, counselors, and coaches.
Uh, this training will also cover identifying at-risk
students and offering appropriate referrals.
Specific groups of employees who have frequent interaction
with students such as mental health staff, uh,
will receive additional targeted training, uh,
for student education.
Uh, we are incorporating suicide prevention lessons into the
health curriculum, ensuring that students are equipped
with tools to recognize, uh,
warning signs in themselves and others.
Uh, the curriculum will focus on building resiliency
and coping skills and three postvention strategies.
Uh, the updated policy emphasizes the importance
of postvention, uh, providing counseling and support
after suicide or attempt to help students, staff
and families cope with grief
and reduce the risk of suicide, uh, contagion.
And then the ar the ar touches on staff development.
Uh, suicide prevention training, uh,
will be offered at least once per year
and staff will be trained to identify
mental health services available.
Um, training will include specific topics such
as recognizing depression
and other emotional distress,
especially in high risk groups, uh,
like students in foster care and those with mental health
or substance abuse issues.
Uh, the goal of this policy is
to ensure a proactive approach
to suicide prevention while supporting
those impacted by suicide.
And again, I'm, I'm happy to answer any questions you have.
I don't have any questions. Um, trustee Lockman.
Hi. So, um, throughout some of the documents, I noticed
that there's a lot of processes
and steps that bypass communication directly
with parents upon notification
that a student is either thinking about it
or in the process of, or has been stopped.
Um, I just sort of wanna understand, we,
we talk about trying to intervene at some point,
but I didn't see a lot of information here that said
that the i the first, the second person we contact
would be the parent or the guardian.
And so I wanna find out why.
Yeah. So if a, if a student is, um,
if a student mentions those comments
or having those thoughts, um, one of the first things
that we do as a school site is we do reach out
to the parents and we communicate with them.
Is there a specific space in the BP
that you're referencing? Yeah,
It's out actually throughout a lot of it.
So I would probably like to do it as a sidebar discussion.
Okay. Um, because it doesn't seem like we call it out
throughout the document.
'cause I almost wrote on every paragraph that says things
where we're gonna implement and talk to counselors
and designated reporter,
but then there's nothing about talking to the parents.
So it's more throughout.
But I'd be happy to do as a sidebar discussion
to just point to where it is.
Can I just clarify, this is about
what we're training our staff to do, right?
This is staff training we're providing,
Well, yeah, it's staff and yes.
Staff. And, uh, we are talking about what we're doing
as a district to make sure that we have clear processes in
place for, um, prevention intervention and,
and the postvention Yes.
Addressing staff training.
And, uh, a part of that is talking about
what we're doing in terms of, um,
supporting our students too with the curriculum as well.
Okay. Mm-Hmm, second. Sorry, did you have other questions?
Yes, I do. So, um, I'm trying to remember,
which I didn't label the pages, so I apologize.
Second to last page on the ar there is, um,
where students returning to school.
Um, we have in this paragraph it's above Postvention.
We're talking about use, it appears to be written
that we're reviewing whether
or not it's appropriate for a student to come back
through either the principal designee
or the school counselor.
But it's my understanding that only a physician
or possibly if the student is se seeking help
with a psychiatrist, that only
that person would actually be authorized to tell us
that the student is able
and capable of returning back to school.
Is that correct? Would we actually
not accept a physician letter saying
that the student's totally capable of returning to school?
Well, we would accept,
we would accept the physician's letter saying that they are,
uh, typically, um, that is, that's not the case
or how it plays out in the school.
Typically, how it plays out in the school is we make sure
that there, there isn't a plan in place for that student.
Um, and that that student is monitored
and, uh, their supportive measures at the school site, um,
after that student returns and while that student goes home.
And there's a plan between, uh, the administration, uh,
the counselors and the family to make sure that
that student is safe when they come home
and that their supportive measures
once they return back to school.
But do we require a letter from a doctor
or physician that states that they're healthy
and well enough to return to school?
We do that for other medical issues,
but we don't do it in this case.
No, that's, that's not a requirement.
I'll have comments later. But the,
Are there any other questions?
Do you have any public comment? Nope. All right.
Um, do you wanna make your comments now or
If there are no public comments?
Sure. Yeah. You said there wasn't.
So, um, one of the things
that I was a little bit concerned about, obviously we have
to do, uh, suicide prevention,
but based on stats, nationwide stats in terms of, um,
actually the highest, um, causation
of youth death is actually, um, accident.
It's about 57%, 21% is suicide and 20% is homicide.
Most of that is relegated to the, um, extensive use
of firearms or access to firearms, if you can believe it.
Gangs and other violence, which we may not,
we may not see in this community,
but, um, it seems like the largest number
of deaths in children in 2020 was firearm,
motor vehicle crash, drug overdose, suffocation, drowning,
heart disease, and other chronic diseases.
So suicide is a very small number based on the data
of population statistics that were
provided by New England Journal of Medicine.
We would have, based on the ratio of our students, one third
of a student would actually be capable in
our district of committ suicide.
So if you think about that,
that'd be one every three years maybe.
So I want us to also consider having taken
courses in college on the subject of psychology is
that when we consistently discuss something in front
of students, we're actually participating in
putting that in their, in their mind.
So I understand we need to talk about, um, prevention
and access to students,
but also on the cards that students carry.
We have a suicide hotline.
That's a really great way
to actually remind students all
the time that it's an option.
So I'd like us to be a little bit more careful in the use
of words and terminology around students
and how much we talk about it.
Um, I actually think
that most students just need mental health and support.
They don't be need to be reminded that this is an option.
So I appreciate what you're trying to do here,
but, um, I really feel that there has
to be a little bit more care given to
how much we talk about and advertise it.
Um, if you have data
and statistics that show
that having posters all over the place,
discussions in health class, constantly reminding students
and having it on their badge is a good way
to imprint the word suicide into their
brain and that it's healthy for them.
That's great. I do think we need helplines,
but I would ask that we be a little bit more thoughtful
and constantly reminding students
that this is an option. Thank you, but
This is ed code.
We have requirements from the state on ways
we need to do this.
And, and I would say I'm very much in the mental health
realm right now, and the,
the research has gone completely the other way
that the less we talk about it,
the more problematic it becomes.
Um, and I think the
way we've opened up conversations around mental health
and helping students to seek help, know
where help is, help their friends to speak up if they're
worried about their friends
and how they do that, I think is absolutely critical
and has shown, I think that the research has gone, you know,
since the start of my career, the research in terms of
what happens at high schools
after, you know, has gone very differently.
And I think there's a reason the state
has mandated some of these things.
I know our psychologists are very much involved in it.
Um, in my district I've been involved in it many times,
you know, many discussions and trainings for staff.
And I think it's there.
And I think one
of the things I think was really important here is helping
staff to understand their role
and work within their specialty
that basically stay in your lane.
Like, you know, you need to be aware,
but you need to also reach out to the school psychologist,
the counselor, the mental health
professionals if you're concerned.
And so I think, um, I would absolutely
disagree with your comment there.
Um, and I think the, the recent research in mental health
is supporting that we are having these conversations we're
being open, um,
to help students support them as much as they can.
This is the first reading again.
So we are not voting on this one until next time. Correct?
Correct. All righty, thank you. Now we're going on to hr.
So I see Heather has quite a few HR
ones starting with
Thank you and good evening again, the first time
that we're bringing forward to you.
As you can see, there's a number of them, um, is related
to updates and policy related to discipline, suspension
and disciplinary action.
Um, I think the most important aspect
of the revisions being forward,
as you can see in the board background,
is just some expanded language around making sure
that we have details included
around protected union union activities
and how that may overlay
with potentially disciplining someone
because they're engaging in those activities.
But I'm, I'd love to answer any questions you have about the
revisions that we're bringing forward
tonight, if you have any.
So just a reminder, uh,
and clarification, um, Ms. Campos that this is straight, uh,
CSBA updated languages is not unique to Dublin.
We have not added language that pertains
to just Dublin Unified.
That's precisely accurate
and will be the same for each
of the items I'm bringing forward tonight. Thank you.
And these are, there's two different ones
because they're two, is it like classified
and certificated, like 42 and 41? Is it,
Uh, the 4,100 is always,
the 100 series will always be for certificated.
And the 40, 4200
Is 200 is classified.
Classified. Um, yes, that's accurate related
to this, just those two groups.
Okay. Thank you. Mm-Hmm. Any questions?
That seemed pretty straightforward.
All right, we'll go to the next one, which is leaves. Yes.
Um, the second item related to leaves does apply
to classified certificated and, uh, leadership employees,
or I should say certificated classified
and leadership employees.
And again, um, just include some revisions
to update some language, particularly
as I've written in the background about placing
employees on involuntary leave.
It specifically, um, uh, discusses
and expands upon whether
or not when you're in the process
of considering placing someone on an unpaid leave
that is involuntary
and we determine at the end of the investigation, um,
that it weighs in the employee's favor, that they, they are
to be made whole at the end of
that leave if they lost any compensation.
I think it makes sense, but any questions that I can answer,
please let me know
Any questions.
And most of this refers just back to our CBAs.
It does. And, um,
and you can also see in the language that's added,
'cause there is quite a bit of language,
it really just expands upon a policy that
before was a bit brief, um,
and adds language that isn't really unique
or new just to explain to you all the types of leaves that,
um, employees may have.
But I think the most significant part is
what I referenced a moment ago.
Alright. You have any questions on that?
Okay, next one is temporary and substitute personnel.
Yeah. Now related to this item, these are, um,
this is a new bp.
There was an AR in place before
and there are revisions to it.
So with the bp, um, that you'll see, this is a brand new bp,
it just really aligns with the revisions to the AR
and provides a lot of clarity
and detail around how you can classify a temporary
or substitute employee.
And this is just related to certificated employees.
And, um, if I can answer any questions
for you, please let me know.
But I do wanna highlight
that we did have an AR in place in the past,
and if you look at the regulation, um, there are,
there is quite a bit of, of language that's stricken,
but it's just making sure that we're compliant with language
that relates to ed co primarily around ED code,
but not significantly new for the way
that we implement our temporary employment
and substitute employment, I should say.
Yeah.
Very important subs. Yes,
Definitely we need those folks.
Any questions related to this one?
Again, fairly straightforward. Okay.
I'm gonna keep going. Okay.
Um, item number four is related to classified
or certificate classified and leadership employees.
I think the importance around the revision in these bps is
primarily around the fact that,
and you're seeing this language sort of updated
and laid into policies, um,
across the board is really an expansion of clarifying, um,
protections and rights for employees, um,
around their protected status.
And so you've been seeing these, um, updates kind of coming
through in various, particularly related to HR policies.
Again, I wanna clarify that the protections around, um,
members and their rights to be in protected status
for speaking up on behalf of various, um, needs
that they have or things that come forward.
It's not necessarily that the laws are are changing.
I really wanna say that I think CSBA, in my opinion,
is doing a nice job of updating, um, policies
to be a bit more explanatory.
Um, and this one in particular, you'll see expansions
around explaining protected rights
around whistle whistleblower and bringing things forward.
Um, and the fact that we can't discipline you
or retaliate against you in any way
for bringing issues forward.
And there's one policy, um, revision for each group.
Okay. Trustee Blackman, I,
so I wanna ask you questions about
the whistleblower protection.
Mm-Hmm. Um, my understanding is that this is specific,
the way it's written, it looks like it's only specific
to state or federal rules and regulations.
Is that true? Or is it,
do you I'm looking at
Thinking that, yeah. Would you, sorry,
Let me read the number. Um,
4 1 1 9 0.1.
I was actually trying to look at all of them.
Um, that was the AR mm-Hmm.
I think, no, that was the policy. 4 1 1 9 1 mm-Hmm.
Um, has a description.
It's very similar to the one in, um, the others. Yes.
And the, the question I just wanna ask is that the writing
seems to apply that whistleblower protection only applies
when the employee is calling out something with related
to either state or federal.
Oh, I see. Rule or regulation, yes.
But only those, so in other words, an employee
that calls out something that is a violation
of anything else does not have
whistleblower protection action. Hmm.
I think that's interesting. Can I look into
that a little bit and certainly consider
that in the second reading, please.
I, I, I do wanna say, um, I, I can't speak to
that specifically right now
and would like to think about that a little bit more,
particularly in relation to what the ED code says.
However, um, and I know this has been said before,
but it's important to note
that anytime somebody brings forward something
that they think is being hidden
or needs to be daylighted, um,
prompts our need to investigate.
So there are a number of policies
and regulations that prompt that type of work,
but if you don't mind, I'll look into it just a little bit
more and be prepared to answer that question later.
Any other questions on that item?
Okay. The next item, um, J five is related to probationary
and permanent status.
Again, these are revisions.
Um, I do wanna say there's nothing significant in the
revisions that overlays with
what we actually do in practice.
I think the most important part if you look at, um,
where it's being added is again,
it's just really laying in some more detail for folks
to understand how it is that we can classify you
as probationary and how you move to permanent status.
And these policies only relate to, um, certificated
and classified employees.
So the difference between certificated
and classified as clearly delineated in there, classified
as six months or 130 work days with a teacher
or certificated, it's entirely different.
They go through temporary
probationary and then to permanent.
And that's all really well explained in here,
but is absolutely what we do in practice
and have done for many years.
Can I answer any questions about those items?
Okay. I'm gonna move to J six.
Um, the next item relates to dress and grooming.
And there is a policy for all of our employee groups.
And, um, the most important piece about this, um,
related to this is it is a revision.
And you can see that it,
it's just adding in some more language around ensuring
that we understand that we need to allow employees
to dress in a manner that's consistent with their identity
or gender expression,
and that we can't, um, discriminate against them
for doing so.
It also expands on adding language around hairstyle.
And, um, of course it can't, there cannot be any, um,
uh, loss of compensation
or discipline related to the way that you choose
to express yourself and dress in grooming.
And there's a policy for each of the groups.
It's very short. Um,
but the extra language I think is very helpful.
Trustee Blackman, so I understand that this, the
revisions were basically based on some of these
identity needs that in new protected classes,
which I understand and that's necessary,
but there's so little in here
that honestly, I'll give you an example.
A teacher who's teaching about a, a country that has
an island nation and decides to wear what
that island nation wears,
which might just be a grass skirt and a bikini top.
It could be a guy from like some island nation,
and they just decide to wear that.
There's nothing in our policy
that prevents them from wearing that
because we state appropriate, they could argue
that's appropriate to what I'm teaching that day.
So there's also nothing in here about safety in terms
of wearing like, the sorts of things
that we would wanna protect and inform our staff.
If you're working on a site, for example,
or a maintenance department, I would hope
that you'd have boots with like
steel plates and bomb of them.
Mm-Hmm. If they, if we don't tell them
and they get a nail in their foot, who's, who's that on?
That's a liability for us.
So these are very vague and open-ended.
I actually think there's a lot of liability
by not providing specifics, especially
around the issues of safety.
When you say appropriate dress,
I think everybody in their mind has
a different idea about what that means.
So unfortunately, you leave it up to a supervisor to define
that and that supervisor could be held for a bias
for whatever reason, because we didn't define what it is
that is appropriate.
Again, I don't see this as being helpful.
So I would hope that we, if we're gonna be so specific as
to denote hairstyles, we should be specific enough to define
what appropriate dress is
for our staff in certain circumstances,
especially when safety's a concern.
Mm-Hmm. And I'm, my references are primarily for individuals
who are working with machines.
And again, those working in labs, we have nothing in here.
And I'm very concerned for the safety
of our staff without providing that information.
Mm-Hmm. You can write a paragraph that says that can be,
you know, developed by the supervisor,
but there needs to be something in here.
Thank you for bringing that up.
I, I feel that the first paragraph covers that adequately.
It talks about the fact that, um,
and I think you're referring more to what professional dress
and grooming would be considered.
Um, in particular it does talk about the safety.
I think the most important part of that first paragraph is
that all employees shall be held to the same standards.
So same standards would not necessarily mean that a um,
person working in maintenance
and operation who needs to wear strong, closed toed shoes
with maybe a steel toe
or something is gonna be the same as what we might consider
for someone working in a special education
IA position in a classroom where kids might move
around a lot and shouldn't be wearing flip flops.
But I think the consistency is around making sure
that if we expect that of one E-S-N-I-A,
we expect it of everybody.
Um, and I do think that, um, we don't have evidence
that suggests that our managers are sort
of inconsistently applying a standard
to employee address in regard to dress
and grooming for employees.
It would be very common for a manager to call HR
and consult with us if they felt they had a concern about
some, what somebody was wearing to work.
Um, and it doesn't happen that often,
but occasionally folks will call.
So I think, um, our managers are pretty attentive
to being respectful about checking
in before they make a judgment
When it comes to our trades and our grounds crew.
Do we not have specific language in the job description?
Yeah, I, I appreciate you asking.
I think we, I would have to look and I'll do that
before I come back, but we do have a district uniform policy
that's slightly different,
but talks about uniforms that we provide.
I don't know that I would say it's specific
to like the footwear and,
and you know, making sure that we address that,
but it partially covers it.
Lemme take a look at that though,
and I'll be prepared to answer
when I come back for a second.
Reading
Trustee equal, Um, in regards to the,
the dress code when it comes to different trade groups
and for example, nurses
or folks working, um, in facilities,
doesn't OSHA cover that?
Like in terms of like what you should be wearing?
Yeah. Thank you for asking that.
We do have other board policies and regulations
and contract language that relates to making sure
that we provide people
with the supplies they need to be safe.
So in regards to you referenced the district nurses,
we have, um, an IAPP or an injury illness
and prevention plan that details some of those things.
So I'll make sure that I put some bullet points together
to share with you next time.
'cause I don't think that everything that relates
to ensuring that our employees are safe in terms of
what they wear or put on themselves at work is just related
to our dress and grooming policy.
I, um, at tendencies is more of a over
overarching, uh, umbrella to cover some of the new issues
that were brought up in terms
of discrimination and, and whatnot.
So I I don't see that we need to go into the details
that was, that was mentioned for this policy.
Do you mean in relation to the student policy?
No. Oh, okay. This is just for, for adults.
We're talking about adult dress code, right?
Yeah, I mean, I like the way it is written
as it is based on ed code,
because I don't think this is here
to address every single little detail of
how a person should dress based on
Their, I think that's safe and fair to say Yes.
Okay. But I'll make sure I can
answer a couple of those questions.
All right. Um, item seven is also an,
a new board policy to attach to a revision of a, of a,
um, administrative regulation that we already had in place.
And it's just related to certificated employment
and the hiring of interns.
Um, and as you know, um, more
and more we are on occasionally hiring interns in school
districts when positions are hard to fill,
or we wanna support one of our employees that's working
to get their credential.
So the board pol the, the board policy
and regulation really expand on
and make it very clear how, how do we hire them?
What type of support do we need to provide them,
and how do we go about ensuring
that they get all of those things?
Um, and what type of agreement do we need
to reach with the university?
And if you have any questions, let me know.
Um, however, these are all things
that we've been doing for a while.
We do follow the procedures as outlined.
Okay. That's
Anything, right? Oh, oh, excuse me.
Thank You. I'm sorry, I just thought it was this.
Uh, this is college level interns, right?
We're not talking about high school
interns who wants to do a summer,
Right? We're talking about, we're
talking about teaching interns.
So they're on an intern credential program while we support
them earning their credential.
Okay. Thanks. Yeah.
Yeah. Thank you for asking. Right.
The last item, um, is related to revisions around health
and welfare benefits,
and does address, um, all of our groups.
And, um, it, it is just an expansion, I believe,
of ensuring that we're following the law.
Um, there are a couple of new pieces in there.
One in particular talks about ensuring that, um, the rates
that we have are appropriately percentaged out to the type
to the amount that you're making annually.
Um, I was looking over these as these were developing them,
and when I bring them for second reading,
I'm just gonna do some double
checking on numbers with Chris.
But I've been looking at all the numbers
and I believe we're compliant in every single way.
But I'm gonna check with my good colleague Chris Hobbs
before we bring the second reading
and make sure we haven't missed anything.
Um, but I believe everything is compliant in the policies
that we're bringing forward to you tonight.
Trustee Blackman,
Just catching one thing.
I I, it looks like it's actually written into family code.
Mm-Hmm. Maybe it's just not up to date,
but, um, in instances where you see the, the references
to his and her, please add, I guess it would be their, oh,
Do we have some, his and her language in here?
Yes. There's some language pieces in it, you point to
Make sure that you point me to one of them. Oh,
I see it. Okay. Yeah,
Just to make sure that it's not, you know,
this may be a little older out of date.
Yeah. Not up to speed, but if it has been updated, if,
if we can update, that'd be great. Thank,
Thank you. I will fix those,
um, gender references.
Okay. If there are no other questions.
All righty. See you next. Thank you, Heather.
You're welcome. Alrighty.
Um, that brings us to consent, which is fairly short.
It's KL and m.
Is there anything anyone wishes to pull from KL
or M Trustee Blackman?
Uh, K three. K five.
Anyone else? Okay.
Then I'll take a motion to approve everything else.
I'll move. We approve the consent calendar.
Um, KL and M minus K three. And K five
Second.
All right. We have a motion. Second. Any other motions?
Trustee Wanni? Aye. Everyone else? Aye. Aye. Aye, Carrie.
All right. Let's start with K three, which is
the proposition two.
Right. So I had mentioned the last meeting
that I had wanted to attend CSBA walkthrough of the, um,
proposition two and just provide a brief update.
Um, because of what I learned in the discussion, the, um,
apparently there's not a huge amount of support for it.
And that was what was relayed
by a former congressman who's actually taken over for CSB
and overseeing some of this.
He was leading the presentation.
Um, one of the things that he expresses
that it's a very confusing proposition,
the way it's written, he could not answer questions as
to whether or not in fact,
project 30 on the list will in fact be stay on the list
and the priorities that they are already in.
He was unable to answer questions
and provide guarantees that, um, new projects
that would be coming up, how they would be
determined in terms of the prioritization.
And, um, one of the questions that came up is
that there's these restrictions around projects
that you either have new facilities based on growth
or needs, or you have old facilities
that need modernization, that need to be 25 years or older.
So on some of our campuses, which are not 25 years
or older, we wouldn't qualify.
So that's a little bit of a problem.
Um, the concern that I have in
and some of the other questions that were asked
and the responses that were given, um, not a lot a a lot
of huge support, more questions.
Fremont, for example, was voice concerns about the largest
of their need with their new, um, facilities plan.
And the fact that there's no way that the size of this
proposition could possibly cover those costs.
The one thing I wanna daylight is that
this former assembly member expressed this is non new tax on
residents, but that is being carved out at the general fund.
The problem with that is
that right now school districts have a need for funding.
So although he says that the likelihood
of this rolling out quickly probably wouldn't happen is
that we're really dependent on there being enough money in
the general fund to allow for something like this.
My own personal concern is that school districts need money.
And if they're carving out money to pay for
an overall proposition that's worth like billions
of dollars, the money
that our district would normally receive just to pay
for costs that we're cutting right now would not happen.
It's all one pot. So if we're actually, if this moves ahead,
my concern is in the next two
or three years, maybe the next 10 years,
we will actually struggle to get monies
back into our district.
And many other districts that have, um, cuts in funding
the largest of the, um, proposition is likely
to last when they sell the bonds 30 to 40 years.
So this is something we're gonna be
paying for, for a very long time.
So I wasn't exactly thrilled by what I heard.
I felt that if we really needed money to do what we need
to do, we should do our own bond.
I don't think we'll be getting any new money from this.
We certainly don't qualify under some
of the equity components to it.
Um, and he wasn't able
to answer really specifically if we would actually fit in
the box, given that we have facilities
that are less than 25 years old
and not necessarily growth based in terms of need.
So I just, I provide you that information.
It's, um, a little disheartening.
They really do need the money at the state level,
but I actually think that this is one of the issues where
if it gets approved, it will actually affect school funding
for the next 10 years.
So, thanks.
I I'm just gonna say I'm in support.
I think you're never gonna get a
perfect thing at the state level.
There's so many different people
and different districts advocating for things.
I think we can very much show growth, um,
as why we were building new schools.
Um, and generally you wouldn't be modif,
you wouldn't be modernizing schools
that aren't 25 years old.
So I, I don't, I don't have a problem personally with that.
I think otherwise if we, I mean everyone has,
can do their own opinion on this one
and vote however you want on it.
I do think, um, this is the best chance we have
of getting reimbursement from the state for the many,
many millions of dollars we have spent to build Emerald
that we're gonna spend to build Shamrock Hills
that we've spent on facilities throughout the district.
Um, I think this is our best chance
and I will support this, um,
because I think nothing's perfect.
There's, there's so many factors going
into something across the state.
Um, so that's my opinion, Jesse Speck,
Um, yeah, I'm gonna support it as well.
Um, it doesn't necessarily mean
that we won't need our own bond at some point,
so it certainly isn't necessarily gonna be enough.
Um, and it's certainly not perfect as,
I don't think any proposition I've ever read from the state
has been, but um, it does save the 8.5 billion
for TK through 12 districts.
3.3 billion is supposed to be for new construction,
which would, um, enrolled would fall into, um,
I realized they're gonna give priority to some degree
for lower income, um, districts.
But, um, again, this is our best chance.
Um, it's our only chance, uh, really, um,
at least in this election cycle to get some sort
of state matching for the incredible amount of, um, tax our
residents of Dublin have paid
to build the beautiful schools we have.
So, um, I wanna try to get anything we can to, um,
def fray more, um, taxes that we,
or more bonds that we have to go out
for at some future point for the future facilities needs.
We have,
There's any other questions?
If not, I will take a motion.
Sure. I'll move that. We approve item K three.
I'll second. I have a motion. And second.
Any other motions? Trustee Wan? Aye.
Everyone else? Aye, aye,
Aye. No
Carries three to one.
All righty. That was everything on consent, right?
Uh, K five Oh, K five, sorry.
So I just had one quick question.
Um, there are changes to the, this new policy that,
not new, but updates to it.
And I just, I don't know if we clarified.
So if we have standing contracts at the time, um,
there's obviously law that
that determines if you have standing contracts at the time,
if they're in fact affected by changes to policies.
And I don't know if we ever had that answer from legal.
When does this become effective when the new contract is
written or does this apply to the existing contract,
in which case it would need to be revisited.
So, um, I'm I'm unclear on your question
'cause that was not something that was
asked for me to review.
What was asked was that last sentence, uh,
that last paragraph in the policy to have legal review that.
So can you please restate your question?
So when we update, this becomes current,
but if we already have a standing contract,
the standing contract is not updated even though we update
the policy after the contract has been signed.
Or do we need to go back and update the contract
because the policy has changed?
So what the policy is, is updating
and recommending components
that are in a superintendent's contract.
The only significant change from our past policy
to the new policy is that the severance
is no longer allowable in ed code for 18 months.
It's only 12 months.
For instance, my current contract only
allows for six months.
So no, nothing would change in the contract.
Okay. Thank you. That's my, my only request
for clarification is when it becomes updated. So
Thank you. And then the
last paragraph, um, our legal counsel agrees
that it is confusing.
He doesn't understand why it's there,
however it is in ed code.
And so the right for the board, uh, to do that, uh,
is there, but how it would actually be
implemented, he's unsure of.
So he recommended that crossing it out would not
impact our current process.
Okay. Does someone wanna make a motion?
Yeah, I'll move that. We approve item K five.
I'll Second.
Any other motions? Trustee Pei? Aye. Everyone else?
Aye, Aye. All right.
Next up we don't have any written reports for the evening.
Um, future items, is there anything pending that we need
to know about or anything people would like
to request at this point in time?
I would just like to update the board, uh, that, um,
regarding the fencing at Dublin High School, um,
the bid process requires a certain amount of time
that we go out for that bid.
Uh, so our goal is to have that bid, uh, completed
and brought to the board for discussion
and possible approval, uh,
at the first board meeting in November.
Thank you for that update.
Anything else, anything changes on the governance
calendar at this point?
All right. Trustee reports? Trustee speck.
Um, I only have one thing.
I was, um, I'm making sure my calendar.
Um, I was able to attend the Dublin l Jahan, um, last week,
which was a great time
and, um, enjoyed seeing, um, all the spirit from the kids at
that school and, um, just getting to be a part
of the program again.
That's all I have to report
Trustee Blackman.
Thank you. So, um,
something I'll just remind everybody here is I did attend,
um, what is required about, uh,
basically every two years we're required to, um,
attend ethics training.
So I don't know if the other board members have signed up
for it, but it needs to be done every two years.
So please do. It's very insightful.
It's led by our lawyers team, so I advise doing it.
I also, as I mentioned, attended CSBA
a's review of prop two.
Um, unfortunately the city, we were unable
to schedule the city liaison meeting.
This has been going on for about a year
and a half, so, um, I wish I could report back on some
of the changes and requests and updates,
but obviously we will wait again for
that to get rescheduled.
Thank you.
I have not seen a report. Um, I was able
to attend the teacher of the year event
last week, which was wonderful.
Um, we had a, um, some representatives from Murray staff,
um, and administration there and some district people.
It was great. Um, it's been really exciting.
I've gone three years and we've won two of the years.
Um, but it was really great.
Um, I highly recommend, um, anyone attend that, um,
in future years, um, whenever possible.
Um, it just really is inspiring all the great work
that's going on across the county.
Um, and our staff represent very well every year.
So that was great, um, to celebrate Lauren.
I'm glad we were able to have her here.
Um, 'cause yeah,
we didn't know she won until they announced her.
And so that was, that was great fun.
So I was really, really excited.
I wore my Murray purple and that was fun.
Um, and then, um, I was able
to attend the football game last weekend
and that was great fun just to see the bands
and the middle schoolers all there
and, um, all working on their shows, um,
and pulling all that together.
I know we've had some turn, you know, new,
new band director and everything.
So it's great to see all of that kind of coming together.
Um, and, and the great community building that
that happens at the different schools through the,
the sports, um, and band and, and everybody.
Um, it was nice and warm on Friday night
and looking forward, um, to all the homecoming festivities,
um, at Dublin High next week.
So I'm sure we'll be at many of those.
So, um, that is all I have for now.
I think I've spoke enough tonight. So I'll pass
At least once I fridge, turn my mic on.
Um, anything else?
Anyone needs any evaluation?
Um, if not, I will take a motion
to adjourn. I'll move that we
Adjourn. I'll second,
Uh, trustee PE 20.
Aye. All in favor? Aye. Aye. Aye. Alrighty.
We are adjourned. Our next meeting will be Tuesday,
October 22nd.
We'll see you then.